The shutdown of the straight-up war news was not quite as bad as you probably thought. It is true that, in retaliation for the U.S. and Israel strikes in Iran, the country's Sepna-Nivi broadcast the following message over VHF Marine Radio. From now on, all navigating through the threat of war mode is forbidden. No ship in every type is not allowed to have spread the threat of war mode till next notice. To back up that declaration, the Iran Revolutionary Guard Corps attacked vessels that dared try to transit the waterway with missiles and drones sending a clear message to others grinding traffic to a halt. It's also true that 20% of the world's oil passed through this choke point up until the war. But global oil production in March 2026 actually only shrunk about 8%. Price is, however, spiked a massive 60%. 7.5 times more than the contraction in supply. This is perhaps counterintuitive, but how this happened and what happens next is explained by the full complexity of the global oil markets. The Gulf is undoubtedly the world's most important oil production region. It is both the greatest reserves and the lowest cost of production, making it no surprise that it quickly developed into one of the world's greatest concentrations of wealth. The smallest country on the waterway, Bahrain, no larger than the city of New York, is still the world's 35th largest oil producer, outputting about 200,000 barrels a day even though its economy is fairly well diversified away from oil extraction. It focuses a good bit on refining oil from Saudi Arabia as well as manufacturing, finance, and other sectors. Neighboring Qatar is similar. It's the next largest Gulf producer and 1.3 million barrels a day, though it too has diversified its economy by specializing in natural gas production. Its Rosloffian industrial city is single-handedly responsible for 20% of the world's liquid natural gas supply. Then there's Kuwait, the world's 10th largest producer at 2.6 million barrels a day. Though in this case, there's little diversification. Oil completely dominates the small country's economy. These three nations, Bahrain, Qatar, and Kuwait, were put in a tricky, almost existential situation by the closure of the strait as they're each 100% reliant on oil tankers transiting the waterway to export their product. It was absolutely devastating for their economies, but less so to the global economy as they collectively represent just 16% of Gulf oil production. Their influence on global prices is rather minimal. The rest of the Gulf countries, though, are in a very different, more promising situation. The next largest producer, the United Arab Emirates, produces about 4.1 million barrels a day, more than the previous three combined, but crucially, it has a small coastline on the other side of the strait. Most Emirati production is in or near the Gulf, as that's where the oil physically is, but in 2008, it started building a pipeline. While official government statements tended to focus on the cost and time savings of exports bypassing the strait, the true purpose was hardly a secret. Iran had long threatened to shut down the strait of Hormuz, and the UAE knew they could actually do it. It's only 20 miles wide, the shipping lanes are even smaller, and all they'd have to do is lay some mines or launch some rockets to keep ships from trying. Well, before the war, a substantial portion of the UA's oil was loaded onto tankers at DOS Island, a slim majority was sent via the pipeline and loaded at the port of Fuzera, meaning the country was already fairly resilient when this strategic threat came into reality. Iran itself, the world's seventh largest producer, has actually perhaps counterintuitively developed a very similar strategy. Prior to the war, its primary export point was Carg Island. Like with the UAE and most of its neighboring countries, the Iranian Gulf shoreline is fairly shallow, so this island, connecting to oil fields by pipeline, allows large tankers to dock and load to full capacity. Despite Iran's 4.2 million barrels a day of production, 90% was exported via this one terminal. Incredible concentration, but just as other Gulf countries were worried about Iran shutting down the straight of her moves, so too was Iran for its foes so it built its own pipeline to the other side of the strait. The port of Jask was rarely used in practice prior to the war, but it believed it could handle about 15% of normal export flows with existing infrastructure and more with some upgrades. Iraq, however, is in a slightly different situation. This Gulf coastline is tiny. It uses offshore platforms to load tankers that carry the vast majority of its oil, but unlike the UAE and Iran, it has no other coastline beyond the strait. Instead it has a pipeline to a port in Turkey, and on paper, this is hugely strategically significant, perhaps even more so than the UAE and Iran's pipelines. Not only does this bypass the street of horror news, but also the Suez Canal, which itself has been a spotty trade route in recent years due to attacks on ships by Houthis and Yemen. Houthis though, Iraq's pipeline is itself fickle thanks to the country's tenuous politics. It's routed through the ethnically distinct region of Kurdistan, which, while part of Iraq, has its own autonomous government and in many ways acts as a separate state. Kurdistan's government constantly quarrels with Baghdad over whether it has the right to export oil independently and uses the pipeline as leverage, meaning the political winds of the moment dictate whether this pipeline actually works in practice. For recent years, it's predominantly been in a non-operative state, but this shifted in response to the strait of horror news closure with an agreement made between Baghdad, Kurdistan, and Turkey a few weeks into the war. It's believed that, in time, this route could ramp up to 600,000 barrels a day, representing close to 15% of pre-war export totals. Lastly, they're Saudi Arabia, the Gulf's definitive oil production giant. It is the owning Gulf country with a red sea coastline, and it's taken advantage of this to build a massively capable contingency plan. Its 750-mile, 1200-kilometer east-west pipeline was built in response to the Iran-Iran war in the 80s, and while Iran never closed the strait during this conflict, both it and its enemy attacked tankers in the Gulf, and Saudi Arabia believed a closure could be a natural evolution of this strategy. It's not entirely clear exactly how much capacity the country could divert via this route. While the pipeline itself can operate at as much as 5 million barrels a day, and could potentially search to 7 million a day by converting its parallel natural gas line to carry crude as well, analysts believe the bigger constraint is the tanker loading terminals at its terminus, the port of Yanbu, citing perhaps just 5 million barrels a day of capacity. Regardless, that's a tremendous amount of oil. So much so that it still maintains Saudi Arabia's spot as the world's third largest producer, despite the closure of the straits. Collectively, these four pipelines provide considerable export capacity, dampening the impact of the straits closure. And that's added to the fact that even as Iran blockaded the strait, a drip-feet of tankers were getting through. So far, these had predominantly been those exporting Iranian oil or linked to Iranian allies, but regardless, considering oil is a global market, the supply these carry provides downward pressure on global oil prices. While the supply shock certainly has been bad, when you add these all together, it's potentially smaller than what the headlines might imply. So why does an 8% contraction in supply lead to a 60% jump in price? Well, there's a concept in economics called elasticity of demand. Effectively, it's the relationship between price and demand. For example, breakfast cereal is typically a fairly elastic product. Considering buying one particular brand is not necessary, it's just a preference, the price charged influences people's decision making a good bit, at least on average. Academic research has shown its average elasticity of demand is negative 3, meaning a 10% increase in prices will lead to a 30% drop in demand. Consumers will just buy another brand or switch to something else for breakfast. There are plenty of substitutes. This also works in the inverse. If there's too much demand for a particular brand of cereal, more than can be manufactured, then the brand knows that they can raise prices 10% for every 30% drop in demand they want to induce, thereby allowing them to optimize revenue. This concept also applies to the oil market. In March, there was about an 8% contraction in supply, so prices rose to get rid of a corresponding amount of demand. The problem, though, is that oil is an incredibly inelastic product. Unlike breakfast cereal, there's really no immediate substitute for oil. Internal combustion vehicles just simply need oil to run. And the way vehicles are used is hard to change, too. Among personal vehicles, for example, three-fourths of driving in the US is for non-descretionary journeys like commuting, buying groceries, dropping kids off at school, etc. And even among discretionary trips, heading out to eat, driving to the gym, going on a weekend road trip, people mostly won't let gas price increases dissuade them from doing what they want to do. Even if people learn to cut back on driving or switch to public transport, personal vehicles only account for about a quarter of global oil use. The rest is commercial, and the trucking company certainly isn't going to stop trucking because oil prices are up. They'll charge more, which might reduce demand eventually, but not in the short term. Long-term elasticity of demand is different. People will eventually buy EVs, shorten their commute, and make other choices that reduce oil use. But in the short term, academic research looking at historical precedent suggests oil has an elasticity of demand of around negative 0.1. The opening weeks of the war in Iran largely, but don't entirely mesh with this. This 8% contraction supply and 60% price increase implies a negative 0.13 elasticity of demand, and while that's close to what theory suggests, it's not quite there. And anecdotally, experts have backed up this view. Even the CEO of Exxon has effectively said he thinks prices are lower than where they should be, but how can a market underreact? Well, this market is not perfect. It has subjective, fallible actors of incredible influence, otherwise known, as commodity traders. This finance sector makes its money by betting on what oil prices will do in the future, and through that are one of the largest artificial influences on how oil prices move today. Through a combination of physical oil purchases and financial instruments like futures contracts, they move the market ahead of the supply and demand induced moves. For example, if they believe supply will eminently contract and therefore prices will rise, they will all rush to buy physical oil, store it for a moment, contracting short term supply, and raising prices. So of course, when done at scale, this becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy where what commodity traders are really betting on, at least in the short term, is what other commodity traders will do. The effect this has on the market is that the day-to-day movements follow a mix of narrative and reality. If a large consensus of traders believe oil prices will rise, then oil prices will generally rise. If they believe they'll fall, they'll fall. And this helps explain this. In the opening days of the conflict in Iran, the market's reaction to the closure of the single largest oil show point in the world was rather muted. The US and Israeli strikes started in the early hours of Saturday, February 28, meaning traders had two whole days when the market was closed to reflect on its implications, and yet following a full day of trading on Monday, prices had only risen a fairly modest 6%. Tuesday's rise was less than 5%, then Wednesday the market was effectively flat, even as insurers were canceling policies and more and more reports were coming in of drone strikes on ships in the Gulf. What was happening was that, as they always are, commodity traders' decisions were being influenced by narrative. Among them, there was a widespread belief in the opening days of the war that it would be a limited short term conflict. After all, the second sense of President Trump's initial statement about the strikes read, our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime, which implies a limited military operation. Despite the frequent disconnect between what this administration says and does, traders took these statements at face value, seemingly based on precedent. Whether it was the operation in Venezuela to capture Nicolas Maduro, the strikes on ISIS targets in Syria in response to the killing of two US servicemembers, or the June 2025 operation in Iran itself, where the US dropped bunker buster bombs to supposedly obliterate Iranian nuclear assets, the Trump administration had so far kept the scope of its military campaigns limited. After all, wars tend to be politically unpopular, and Trump campaign messaging included accusations that his opponent would start a war in Iran, implying reluctance to let the conflict escalate. So traders took the administration at their word, but then reality happened. You see, as soon as Tehran started firing missiles and drones across the Middle East, all the world's major marine insurance companies almost simultaneously publish letters, like this. This is a cancellation notice for this insurers' war-risk insurance. The value of a very large crude carrier ranges between $80 and $130 million, and even at pre-war oil prices, its cargo was worth upward of $130 million. This means that ship owners simply have to have insurance. It's just too big of a risk for a single company to bear independently. These hold policies for just about every risk imaginable. Groundings, collisions, breakdowns, fire, but the major insurers operate an independent body called the Joint War Committee that essentially decides which global regions are at high risk for conflict. In recent years, this has included places like the coast of Venezuela, Gulf of Guinea, Black Sea, Red Sea, and all the waters near Iran. Within these areas, vessels are effectively required to carry additional war-risk insurance to cover strikes by missiles, drones, mines, and more. But crucially, these policies can be canceled by the insurers with 72-hour notice, and this is exactly what all the insurers did when the war started. This was one of the biggest plot points that woke the market up to the reality of this disruption. Regardless of the physical impediments, bureaucratic ones made it functionally impossible for oil to float out of the Gulf. As days turned into weeks, some insurers started writing policies again, but if anything, these gave the oil market more reason for concern as the costs of war-risk insurance had gone up more than tenfold, often selling for around 3% of the ship's value per journey, rather than the 0.1 to 0.25% in the weeks leading up to the war. This makes for a massive, additional cost that is unlikely to subside soon since hypothetical threats turned into reality. That's to say, due to this and other changes, progressively through March, the intractability of the disruption to global oil flows came into focus, and the market responded accordingly. Even as diversion routes ramped up in the second half of March and the contraction and supply shrunk smaller, oil prices continued to hover near $100 a barrel. For every bit of supply that came back online, traders' sentiments appeared balanced in the other direction by growing concern about the potential length of the disruption. The illusion of Gulf stability has been shattered. Over recent years, as these countries grew wealthier and more developed, the market started to believe that they were geopolitically isolated from the tumult in the broader Middle East. The possibility to shut down the entire region's economy overnight demonstrated the frailty of that belief, and so the continued supply of Gulf oil is not as guaranteed as markets might have thought before the war began. The market will likely price this uncertainty in long term, so until the straight-of-hormouse is no longer relevant for global oil logistics, the uncertainty in its continued operation will likely have the entire world paying more at the pump. It might be a surprise to learn that the UAE is one of the countries that has restricted access to the internet. You can't use FaceTime, WhatsApp calls or other internet calling apps there, and they also block access to sites that they consider a violation of their cultural and religious norms. This is just one example of the internet not being truly global. Another that I encounter all the time while in Europe is smaller, US-focused sites not being accessible due to non-compliance with GDPR regulations. Then there's the one that almost everyone does, geoblocking on streaming services. All these problems are ones that our sponsor, NordVPN, solves. They have hundreds of servers in countries all around the world, so you can browse the internet as if you're pretty much anywhere you want. But I think the use that's even more important is for cybersecurity. When you connect to a public Wi-Fi network, you're making your data and activity vulnerable. Someone could be on the other end watching every move you do, unless you use NordVPN. They create an encrypted tunnel between you and their secure servers, blocking out bad actors. They also do so much more even when you're on secure Wi-Fi through tools like Threat Protection Pro. NordVPN is able to detect and block scams, phishing websites, malware, and more. For example, independent testers found that it was able to detect at least 85% of phishing websites. If you're on the internet a lot, I think NordVPN is a critical tool that's well justified in time, especially since it's pretty affordable, especially if you use rlink nordvpn.com slash Wendover. That'll get you an exclusive deal plus four months extra, and they even have a 30-day money back guarantee. So give them a shot at nordvpn.com slash Wendover.