If one headline could summarize the mood surrounding the cruise industry in 2008, it's this. Go buy the trip and short the stock. The advice was declarative. A year into the Great Recession, it made sense. If ever there was going to be a screaming deal on a vacation, it'd be now, and if ever there was a time to bet against companies built around discretionary spending, it'd be now. If anything, the advice was a little late. Carnival cruise lines, the biggest in the industry, was already trading at $16, or roughly half of where it was a year prior, while rural Caribbean trading in the mid-30s in 2007 had fallen to a measly $7 to share. But both could and would drop lower as travel businesses reliant on 90-100% occupancy rates to keep the lights on just didn't engender much investor confidence in the century's biggest economic downturn. For their part, though, the cruise companies got creative. Addressing what industry publications euphemistically called a challenging sales environment, they slashed room rates, they offered $200 on board credits, and they included two-for-one airfare to get there. As sign of the Times, Norwegian cruise lines, the third of the industry's big three, offered full refunds to those who booked a trip but could prove they had lost their job before embarkation. Wobbling, the aggressive maneuvering kept occupancy rates high enough to keep the companies upright. But doubts remained. Extreme discounting and last-minute deals could create difficult precedent to the economy bounce back. Cruising and leisure travel could take longer than other industries to bounce back to. And then the big one. How would these companies, emboldened by their past two decades of success and growth, but now struggling to find customers of any sort, feel the massive boats about to be delivered and activated in the next couple years? The industry's big three saw the moment a bit differently. Certainly, recession wasn't something they expected, and each readily admitted that the global downturn hard rocked their respective boats. It was in the first line in Carnival's annual report. It was the theme of the first paragraph of Royal Cribians, and it was responsible for the reported losses at Norwegian. But while each recognized things were rocky for the moment, they didn't share the belief that the industry had run headlong into an existential problem or that they had outkicked their own coverage. Rather, they saw revolution on the horizon. Royal Cribian pointed to its brand new class of ships that they were betting their future on Carnival had its own promising new boats on order, and Norwegian had just revamped its fleet to reflect an overhaul in its cruising style. If they could get through the downturn, they figured that the future of cruising, which they themselves were introducing, was bright. They had reason to project confidence. Until this point, the past two decades for the maturing industry had been red-hot. Since 1990, total passengers had tripled, really hitting a stride in the 2000s. And as the Cruisling International Association's 2009 slide deck acknowledged, even when off-skills arose, the graph still went up and to the right. With this graph, with its upward trajectory and recognition of passenger-resilience showed, was that the industry in the last two decades had zeroed in on its principal advantages. For a majority American customer base, cruising was the cheapest, most hassle-free means of taking vacation. Compared to researching a place, finding a hotel, booking airfare, then ground transportation, figuring out dinner every night, one could just call a travel agent, put down a credit card for a single flat fee and go on a trip, even leave the country without having to do as much as renew a passport. A cruise, with package airfare, meals accounted for, destinations vetted, and excursions already configured, offered both the budget-focused and travel weary a way to get out to good weather, or to see a corner of the world in a more comfortable way. Customer set as much. As these 2008 figures showed, multiple stops were important, but so too was the value and especially the ease of it all, which surveyed as far more important to cruise vacationers than non-cruis vacations. The problem was, this strategy had a cap. Leaning into easy and convenient, cruises had established reputation. They were for the newlywed and nearly dead. They lacked sophistication. They weren't cool, and especially for kids, they were just out and out boring. But with their mid-recessionaire of fleet expansion, Royal Caribbean was confident that it may have just bucked the trend that it may have come across a concept to making cruising cool. Their answer was this boat. When it launched in 2009, Oasis of the Seas was the largest passenger ship ever, but what's more important than sheer size was what it fit inside. The ship was split into seven distinct zones that Royal Caribbean called neighborhoods. The youth zone programmed crann classes for little ones to teen only events for older kids, entertainment place hosted music and house nightclubs. The pool in Sportsdon hosted everything from basketball courts to zip lines. The vitality at sea spa provided 29 treatment rooms and relaxation options, while Central Park, the boardwalk, and the Royal Prominent collectively pulled together a simulation of a street scape. The ship, by design, had something for everyone, or more accurately, some things for everyone. Rather than just drinking and eating and reading a book under the sun, every member of a three-generation family had a place on the boat that drew them in. The concept changed the trajectory of cruising. Two press releases from Royal Caribbean best encapsulate the industry's pivot. First, the announcement that the boat was on its way from Finland to Florida. The release gets to the boat many features early, and then never leaves the subject. While it mentions how one can book a trip on the boat, there's never any mention as to where the boat is actually bound to sail. Once for the announcement as to where the new pride of the Royal Caribbean was to visit in its first year of operation, well, that too was open with a paragraph on amenities before getting to a part that's been overlooked, but the boat actually goes places. Of course, the principal culprit in this destination overlooking had been Royal Caribbean themselves. A tacit recognition that the business strategy was changing. The boat itself was becoming the destination. The destination of the boat addressed another major challenge servicing the industry. In 2008, Royal Caribbean quietly altered this North East Itinerary service by the explorer of the seas. It would cut stops in Charlottetown, Sydney, and Quebec City. The trip would still last nine days. It'd make up for the cuts with new domestic stops, but it wouldn't quite offer the same eastern Canadian experience. It wasn't due to a lack of interest. It certainly wasn't due to the communities not wanting the business or the travelers not wanting the stop. It was down to Royal Caribbean not wanting to burn the fuel. In this industry, fuel is measured not in gallons or liters, but in metric tons, and in recent years, fuel cost has accounted for about 10% of total operating expenses at Royal Caribbean, nearly matching the cost of payroll. Even though some companies will use hedging strategies to lock in future fuel at a given rate, the industry is uniquely vulnerable to fuel price variability, and it was no different in 2008 when the cost of crude more than doubled in the course of a year. The short-term fix, given that 60% of all fuel use on a cruise goes towards physical propulsion, was to cut stops, shorten rowdings, and slow the boats, or just add fuel surcharges. Neither goes over particularly well with the clientele. As a customer at the time pointed out, for those that are invested in the destination itself, such changes in itineraries basically ruin an entire trip. But the long-term solution to better adjust for things they couldn't control was to focus on what they could. For Royal Caribbean and the rest, it was to alter the emphasis on the cruise experience. Make the trip about what they could guarantee, the boat and the experience it provides, rather than the stops the boat makes, or doesn't. In the decade that followed, the innovation of strategy compelled innovation in design. Spear headed by Royal Caribbean and the launch of the Oasis of the Seas, the industry entered a big boat bonanza. Royal Caribbean fleet boomed from this to this, adding an entirely new class of ships while doubling its offering in the Oasis class with two new additions. From 09 to 19, both Norwegian and Carnival added two new classes of their own, and seven new boats each. Justifying the expansion of each was the increased investment into each brand's developing niche. Carnival was, as they put it, fun. They were the easiest as a family running a tineries out of accessible and drivable ports. They were affordable and unpretentious. Norwegian, with an emphasis on its freestyle concept, essentially dining, recreating, doing anything really on your own schedule, was sleek and comparatively refined, welcoming to young professionals, adults, couples. Royal Caribbean, as they put it, was increasingly amped, stuffing their ships with as many groundbreaking firsts as they could possibly imagine. There was something for everyone in the family, but it cost a bit more. All maintained their brand messaging and values through their ever bigger boats. Bigger boats didn't sink the industry like Summit feared, they broke the industry into a new strata. 18 million global passengers in 2009 reached nearly 30 million by 2019. And more than ever, the diversity of the destination of these guests had flattened out, with over a third choosing the Caribbean. For Royal Caribbean, annual tineries used to look like this. A lot of west coast options, a lot of east coast ports of departure, a lot of variety. By 2019, it looked like this. A lot of Caribbean, with a lot of the Caribbean cruises being serviced from US ports near and near to the Caribbean. By 2024, it looked like this, even more Caribbean and a newer wrinkle, shorter average trips. Some of this is explained by simple physical limitations. Cruising in Alaska, or Canada, or Europe is only feasible during the summer, while the Caribbean is year round. Or the fact that Oasis class boats carrying the most customers just can't access ports like Baltimore's because they're too big to clear under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge safely. It's also a recognition that diversity of destination is also just less central to the considerations of the traveler as the boats themselves have become a more central attraction. And this, in turn, helps the company. First, the fuel savings. Simply, the distance is fractional for Caribbean routing than a California to Mexico routing, which not only saves mileage, but if it's a cruise drawn out across seven days, the boat can go slower. Then there's the fact that Royal Caribbean has its own private resource within the islands, as does Carnival, as does Norwegian. Now, rather than passenger spending money on port of call communities, that money is being spent in their extended experience. Beyond the company islands and the comparative fuel savings, there's also the image work. As its itineraries are plotting and pretty limited, it can present fuel savings as a win in the ever contentious environmental impact assessment of these boats, that they're being more fuel efficient than ever. By rightly maneuvering to adjust for consumer taste, big crews has a one, and they've kept winning. Through a global pandemic that, again, certainly seemed like the end of the industry, the boats have only gotten bigger and cruising, now offering shorter and shorter routings for a PTO crunched millennials, has only gotten more mainstream. But the industry is innovating again, this time not through extreme size, but increasingly extreme experiences. There's a prevailing thought shared across the industry that no cruise company is competing with, or even thinking about the other cruise companies, they're competing with land-based travel. So now, land-based travel is fighting back. You won't find Ritz Carlton referring to its growing fleets of commercial superyots as cruise ships, and an industry where 1000 guests qualifies a ship as small or boutique, it reaches first passenger ship, the Averma, holds only 298 guests. Perhaps not a cruise ship, the Averma does commercially cruise, booking out seven day itineraries on plotting Mediterranean routes in the summer, and Caribbean routes in the winter. And the offering is meant to fill a niche within the industry. It was positioned to fill the ultra-luxury cruising void with a purpose-built boat that blended elements of cruises and superyots. Providing the requisite confidence to invest in a $300 million project like this, was the fact that cruising is pretty in line with the company's core competencies. The Ritz relies on loyalty in the luxury hotel sector. Whether in Aspen or New York, all their properties have a similar warm yet refined look and feel, they have staff trained to remember names and to go the extra mile to help a guest, they have restaurants run by empowered and long-serving chefs, all these are things that keep customers coming back, even draw customers to visit far-flung vacation destinations because they have so much faith in the hotel. All these aspects are easily transferable over to a super yacht. The boat, with its ample-exposed wood grain, looks like a Ritz, while the dining experience was designed by the head chef at the Ritz Carlton in Wolfsburg. As for customer service, it's the same as the hotels too. Staff, smile and make eye contact with passing guests at 10 feet, then greet them at five, just like they're trained to do on land. They're also empowered to spend up to $2,000 to resolve an issue that a guest runs into without management green lighting it. On water, the Ritz believed it could provide what it does on land and its customers trusted as much. In the first year of service, the Averma welcomed guests that half the time had never, ever taken a cruise before. While the Ritz Carlton may have been the first, the rest are coming. The first of the four seasons and orient expresses respective forays into the space are set to hit the water in 2026, while a mons will hit the water in 2027. Leaning into loyalty and brand trust is not a strategy reserved just for the ultra-luxury end. Let's take a similar approach with their own niche. A relatively small player in the industry beginning in the early 2000s, Disney 2 saw opportunity in pivoting to a more exciting and experiential cruising model toward the end of the decade. With new ships on the water in the early 2010s and new ships on order by mid-decade, the company invested in the sector with confidence because leadership saw it as an intuitive extension of the brand and its services rather than an expansion into a new space. It's reflected in corporate structure. Rather than a component that's outsourced or siloed, Disney Cruises exists within Disney experiences, the same division that runs the famed parks. All this means that the cruise line is designed by, led by, informed by strategy and best practices honed from running parks and hotels since the 1950s. Similar to Ritz Carlton, they stay busy and bring back rep customers because they employ what works on land. The thematic style of the boats works for kids, costume staff members charm parents by accommodating food allergies and replacing a dropped ice cream. The entertainment, from shows to rides, broadly works for just about everyone, regardless of generation. With the company intersperses some pretty unique itineraries within its heavy dosing of Caribbean routings that usually pass through Disney's castaway or lookout keys, it's most often the on-boat experience that guests talk about. Up to a 2.2% market share, Disney's introduced a new boat in 2025, expecting another in 2026, and another in 2027, all of which from their largest line, the Wish class. All major investments, but investments justified by a confidence that it can deliver at sea what it does on land. Disney Cruises is growing fast, but in an industry that's not seeming to slow, it's not setting the pace, it's just keeping up with the rest. In a conversation with World Caribbean leadership reflecting on strategy during the Great Recession, many leadership expressed one regret that they slowed future ship orders for the following decade to quietly hedge for some slowdown. When cruising bounced back remarkably fast, when their new boats are already delivered were leading the way, they were momentarily behind again. It was a lesson that they and the rest carried into COVID. The industry would obviously slow, but not forever, and they'd be ready when travel returned. Perhaps counterintuitively, with the big bow bananza of the last two decades reflects is an industry increasingly aware of its own advantageous flexibility. With foundational costs and convenience advantage, cruising simply outcompetes the rest of the vacation sector in its nimbleness. A hotel can renovate, certainly, but a cruise can reinvent its ship from the ground up. And more importantly, a ship moves. If fuel prices are up, a ship can move less. If a destination grows dull or too expensive or politically unstable, an itinerary can simply change. If consumer preference asks for short routing so a younger clientele can save some PTO, the cruise industry can accommodate. While the reputation of a lack of sophistication may linger, a sense that cruises can be boring or weird or sketchy still exists, the industry doesn't just persist. It thrives. 50 separate new builds are set to hit the water from 2026 to 2030. Some big enough for 5 to 6,000 guests and about half with 1,000 plus guest occupancies. The race for more and bigger boats just won't stop. If learning and gathering a better understanding of how things work is your thing, I suspect it is if you made it to this point in the video, then this video sponsor Brilliant is for you. Brilliant is an online learning platform that helps you grasp complex concepts in physics, coding, math, or data analysis through learning by doing. If for instance you'd want to better understand how companies of such scale as cruise lines make decisions on routing or pricing, Brilliant's data analysis pathway would be an awesome place to start, and there's no knowledge barrier to entry. The service works for everyone from 10 years old to 100 years old and is designed to meet you where you are. Once you're in, it's a service that feels more fun and rewarding than a hassle because the modules are fast paced, appropriately challenging, and even competitive, something to give your mind a bit of a jolt in the midst of a busy day. And consider the alternative. Rather than taking a few minutes to mindlessly scroll, you can hop on Brilliant and invest that little bit of time in feeding your curiosity and feel all the better for it. It's a smooth interface, it's a well thought out and dynamic product, and it will scratch an inch to be generally more knowledgeable or hone your problem solving. If you're at all curious, now is the time to check it out as Brilliant is offering a 30 day free trial. Go give it a shot by following the link in the description, Brilliant.org slash when you can access it all for an entire month, though I'm confident you'll stick around longer.