This is an AI-enabled license plate reading surveillance camera, and in a convoluted way, the US's federal immigration and customs enforcement agency, more commonly known as ICE, has been able to access its data. That's despite the town whose police department operates this camera, Glenwood Springs, is about as far from supportive of ICE as any. Glenwood voted 2-to-1 for Kamala Harris in the 2024 election and is home to a large immigrant population with about a third of residents speaking Spanish within their household. It's also in Colorado whose majority blue voter base supported the passage of a statewide law explicitly prohibiting local police departments from sharing data or cooperating with federal immigration authorities. But while this camera is operated by the local police department and primarily used by the local police department, it's not actually owned by them. It's owned by a fast-growing venture capital back startup called Flock Safety. The town then pays an annual fee of $37.5,000 to be able to access its data, and that data is apparently useful. Through the included software suite, they're able to go back in time and check where, when, and if a particular vehicle passed through their streets, or add a license plate to a hot list to get an alert when it appears, allowing for the occupants to arrest. Internal logs show the department uses the cameras just about daily to investigate anything from assault to stalking to sex offenses. And Glenwood PD reports these searches have been instrumental in a number of successful cases like arresting a gang member from California in his stolen vehicle, a wanted felon suspected of elder abuse, or a pedophile who lured a child to the town from Oregon. What makes Glenwood's cameras more useful than most is the fact that Interstate 70 passes through the town, meaning thousands of cars on journeys both long and short drive through their view each day. That's why police departments from around the country want access to their data. There's every chance a local suspect from just about anywhere fled by Interstate 70 in an attempt to get far away fast. So Glenwood opted in to data sharing agreements with police departments around the country. Basically, for the press of a couple buttons, other police departments could now search Glenwood's data and Glenwood could do the same with theirs. But that's how ICE got in. In January 2025 alone, internal usage logs indicate that outside police departments access Glenwood's data 516,892 times. A subset of these outside police departments do actively and openly cooperate with ICE, which explains logs like these. Incident acknowledgement that HSI, ICE's investigative arm, is conducting a search using Glenwood's data. There's even indication that Glenwood's data might have been used to track political dissent. In their October logs, there are a number of searches in the days following the No Kingsday protest, a nationwide demonstration against the actions of the Trump administration, logged with the reasoning protest. Legitimate crimes do happen even at overwhelmingly peaceful protests, but the reasoning logged by police departments was not one, meaning this, at the least, demonstrates their potential to use flock data in illegitimate ways. That's especially true, since there's really no standard as to how much police departments or even individual officers must share to justify why they're using flock data. There are thousands upon thousands of instances each month where Glenwood's police department has no idea what other agencies are doing with their data. Since those agencies logged the reason for their search as something ambiguous like investigation, TBD, test, or the number zero. These agencies could be doing whatever with Glenwood's data and the Colorado town would have no idea. And whatever certainly has happened. There's plenty of precedent of nefarious use by individual rogue actors within law enforcement agencies. A police chief in Kansas was caught using flock data to stalk his ex-girlfriend 228 times. A North Charleston South Carolina officer did the same with his wife, one in Miami did so with his girlfriend, one in a minasha was consented with his ex, the cases go on and on, and it's hardly surprising given so many of those caught don't even face legal action and are simply disciplined internally. And of course, these are only the cases that are caught, and given the spotty tracking of flock usage, there's certainly ample ability to fly under the radar. Now eventually local residents in Glenwood Springs got wind of ISIS access to their local data and put pressure on the city council. The police department then closed off access to the system for agencies outside Colorado, meaning in theory, I should no longer have had access to it given the state law prohibiting cooperation with ICE, but still then, according to reporting in the Aspen Daily News, log show that two police departments within Colorado illegally share data with the federal agency. In response, Glenwood shut off outside access to the system entirely, but still then, the city's attorney stated that the terms of their contract with flock meant they quote, can't completely control what flock does with data from Glenwood system. And there's precedent supporting the idea that the data is still not secure. Three hours down the road, Denver terminated their contract with flock after it came out that the city's data was shared with federal immigration authorities against their wishes or knowledge as part of a pilot program. And in Glenwood, even if the police department's cameras are successfully walled off from the outside world, that doesn't mean that ICE can't get access to flock safety data from the town. This is the local Lowes Home Improvement Store, and here, at the entrance to its parking lot, are even more flock safety cameras. These cameras are operated and used by the store itself. Unlike the local police department, Lowes doesn't publish its logs, it doesn't say who's got access to its data, it's collecting a database of every single car that enters its lot, and the public has absolutely no idea what it's doing with that data. There's just one of thousands of flock safety cameras around the country not operated by public agencies that must answer to their constituents, but by private companies, meaning they could act as a backdoor for ICE to surveil the movements of Americans, even in non-cooperative states and municipalities. Now, in recent polling, a majority of Americans have indicated distrust in ICE, so even if flock safety is not a system the agency created, their access to local surveillance data is a growing cause of concern. And tea, perhaps most police departments have not received the pressure that Glenwoods has and are still sharing data with essentially any agency that asks. Any database is only as secure as its weakest link, and it's clear there are some very weak links with this one, meaning ICE now has fairly open access to an effectively nationwide network of license plate surveillance cameras. All they need to do is find one friendly local police department. But of course, many of ICE's surveillance tools don't require roundabout access. Many were designed specifically for the agency's use. In any of the endless videos documenting tense, sometimes violent ICE arrests or confrontations, there's an increasingly common sight. Agents holding a phone up to a person's face. This has a very specific purpose, and this photo reveals it. This isn't the iPhone's camera app. It's a proprietary one developed specifically for use by federal immigration agents called mobile fortify. Here can be seen in action. This agent is attempting to use a Border Patrol variant of it to identify this individual waiting for an immigration hearing at a federal courthouse in New York. If the agent's scan is successful, he'll see the individual's name, date of birth, nationality, immigration status, and whether a judge has already ruled that they should be deported, potentially giving the agent probable cause for an arrest. Of course, like any facial recognition software, this app is only as good as its imagery database. For that, ICE siphons data primarily from customs and border protection. Other agency under the DHS umbrella that deals with processing people at legal ports of entry. Over recent years, CBP has dramatically ramped up their use of biometrics, giving them a massive, yet still growing database of identity data on Americans and non-Americans alike. You see, previously, unlike many countries, the US had no formal exit immigration controls. Rather, airlines share data with authorities which gave them a mostly accurate picture of who left the US and when. Today, though, an increasing number of US airports are equipped with a biometric gate that scan people's faces and match them against their passport photos when boarding a plane. This is both more accurate and supply CBP with new imagery of an individual. Towards the end of 2025, DHS announced that these exit immigration checks would become universal, meaning biometric gates are in the process being installed at any airport with international flights, dramatically increasing the amount of data the agency will collect. While photos from these gates of US citizens are said to be deleted within 12 hours, non-citizens' photos are kept for up to 75 years and put into a file that can be accessed by ISIS Mobile Fortify app. This applies much of the imagery that identifies those with legal status in the US, while Mobile Fortify also has access to ISIS case management system and the FBI's National Crime Information Center to provide imagery of individuals more likely to generate probable cause for arrest. ISIS agents use Mobile Fortify a lot and this internal document indicates why. Quote, ISIS does not provide the opportunity for individuals to decline or consent to the collection and use of biometric data slash photograph collection. Basically, agents are allowed to use the app on anyone, anywhere, at any time, for any reason. This is a source of problem since, to put it bluntly, the app isn't very good. In October 2025, ISIS agents conducted a major operation in the immigrant heavy agricultural town of Woodburn, Oregon. A deposition from a lawsuit related to alleged unlawful actions by ISIS during this raid gives a glimpse into how Mobile Fortify actually functions in the field. An officer scanned the face of one of the detained individuals and, quote, "'It came up to a very, like, a similar person. I wasn't sure if it was her or not.' The match was for a person named Maria, so he called out Maria and given no response, verbal or otherwise, he scanned her face again. Then the app matched with an entirely different person. In the deposition, the officer was then asked what his probable cause was for arresting this woman. The constitutionally-mandated threshold American law enforcement must pass to lawfully arrest an individual. The officer responds, quote, "'I believe she was in the country illegally because, one, the primary language she used that I heard her use with Spanish, and then to interact with everyone else with Spanish. She became a possible match on my facial recognition system." Courts have repeatedly ruled that the language an individual speaks alone cannot be used as probable cause, meaning the core legal probable cause the officer might have been using to justify the arrest was the Mobile Fortify app. And of course, the officer himself admitted that the app misidentified the woman at least once, potentially twice, meaning he was solely relying on knowingly faulty information as the basis of his probable cause. This case is still ongoing and is not publicly known what happened to the misidentified woman, but what is known is that across the country, ICE agents are using this faulty app as the basis of their probable cause. While facial recognition might be highly accurate in a controlled environment, the settings in which agents are using Mobile Fortify are far from that. Lighting is inconsistent, the camera is unstable, individuals are moving their head to evade hands, it's the exact situation where facial recognition struggles. But beyond the problem of the app functioning as a false premise to justify unlawful detentions, the app is also being used in a manner entirely different than intended. Increasingly, federal agents have been seen holding their phones up, capturing imagery of protesters in a manner consistent with the use of Mobile Fortify. In settings like Minneapolis, anti-ice protesters were overwhelmingly white English-speaking individuals, meaning the agents would not likely suspect them of a regular immigration status. Clearly, people vulnerable to legal deportation by ICE are unlikely to go out into such a setting. So why would agents be using Mobile Fortify against these protesters? Well, while there's no way to know for sure, this internal document hints at a theory. Unlike the airport biometric data, this says that imagery from Mobile Fortify is retained for up to 15 years, even if the pictured individual is a US citizen. What we do know with certainty is that when an agent uses Mobile Fortify, a so-called encounter log is created by the app where an individual's photo and name is tied to the time, location, and circumstance of its capture. So that's to say, if an individual's image is captured at a protest, ICE now has an electronic record for the next 15 years that that individual was there. And there's anecdotal evidence of what the federal government does with this information. This court filing related to the agency's actions in Minnesota includes an allegation by a woman acting as a so-called legal observer following DHS vehicles and documenting their actions. She alleges that the agent, quote, stopped in the road, making it impossible for her to proceed. The officer then addressed the woman by name, despite not having volunteered her name, threatened her with arrest if she continued, and warned her that they had facial recognition technology. Three days later, she got an email saying that the TSA had revoked her pre-check status. The widespread program that allows for expedited airport screening for so-called trusted travelers. Having been a member of the program for 14 years, one can reasonably assume that the two events were connected. While this appears to be an isolated incident, for now, what it demonstrates is that on the street facial recognition data is flowing elsewhere within DHS. And even if there's no widespread systematic effort of retribution against anti-ice protesters yet, given what we know about how mobile fortify works, there's a reason to believe that this is already happening on a small scale out in the field. It's believed that, when an individual is identified using mobile fortify, agents can see if another already used the app on that individual. That means they can see the indicators that someone was previously at an anti-ice protest, meaning it acts as a database of dissent. A lawful and arbitrary detention of protesters by federal agents is well reported and widespread, and the app could act as a decision-making tool of who agents want to target. Now, with each additional surveillance tool ICE is known to possess, the details get fuzzier. For example, we know they have these, stingrays. These are typically included as part of a half-million dollar vehicle-based cell phone surveillance system, and they work by effectively spoofing a real cell signal. Cellphones are designed to constantly switch to the strongest signal, typically from the closest tower, meaning any cell phone near a stingray device will connect. Next, the device is able to capture this connected cell phone's IMSI number. A unique numerical combination that corresponds to the user's carrier account. Through a subpoena, court order, or warrant, ICE is then able to gain access to carrier records and draw a link between an IMSI number and a user's identity. Considering how powerful stingrays are as a surveillance tool, ICE's policies only allow targeted use with a warrant. Essentially, it must have a directed purpose towards finding a specific device or individual. Of course, this can be legitimately useful for determining whether a targeted individual is at home or at work, for example. There is, however, a long, long history of ICE ignoring its own policies and using stingrays without a warrant. It's so pervasive, in fact, that there's a whole inspector general report about the issue. But there's also some circumstantial evidence of the IMSI even more flagrantly breaking policy and using stingrays in non-targeted, mass surveillance operations, capturing and collecting the IMSI numbers of anyone in a target area. Analysis of cellular signals at a July 4, 2025 anti-ice protest in Seattle, Washington found anomalies consistent with IMSI capture use, meaning the agency might have been using the devices to gather a log of all the devices and therefore individuals present at that demonstration. License plate readers, mobile fortify and stingrays really are only the tip of the iceberg. ICE also has access to a massive software suite of digital surveillance tools that are increasingly automating their investigative work, allowing for more personnel to state out in the streets, rounding up more individuals for deportation. There's also all the tools we don't know about. ICE rarely volunteers information about their surveillance systems, so what we know comes from leaks, court documents, mandatory disclosures, and observation. With $75 billion in additional funding recently approved by Congress, nearly tripling ICE's annual budget over the next few years, the depth and breadth of the agency's systems are sure to expand increasingly fast. This is, of course, a threat to immigrant rights. Many of these tools just aren't that effective, they have massive error rates, but ICE has little motivation to improve these ineffective tools since, for their purposes, they're effective. Used as a pretext for unlawful arrests of those lacking legal status without legitimate probable cause. It is difficult for the agency to gain legitimate probable cause on individuals, so it's simply easier for them to ignore people's constitutional rights, detain them, then investigate their residency status. With no one in power in the business of challenging ICE's lawfulness these days, this just works. And many Americans have chosen to not concern themselves with the constitutional and human rights of immigrants, so long as doing so hastens the administration's progress towards their goal of a more homogenous America. For those people, however, the means towards ICE's ends should still be a source of concern. The agency has played a meaningful role in a massive creep in mass surveillance of the American people, one that has happened government-wide across administrations, but one that ICE has helped hasten. Traditionally, the U.S. public has been uniquely wary of domestic government surveillance. Pulling indicates that Americans are far more concerned by this than the average European, for example, and are generally content with a certain compromise in security in exchange for increased privacy. One of the most important parts of the Constitution is the protections against unreasonable search and seizure. ICE is challenging this by effectively searching everyone with outwarns in hopes of finding useful info. Many might consider the surface level of their use worthwhile, but there's ample, overwhelming evidence that the agency ignores or changes policy when convenient, hides their methods from the public, and generally can't be trusted to do surveillance the so-called right way. At times these fast and loose methods makes the agency more efficient at removing immigrants, meaning some might justify them, but at other times it normalizes an America where people in power have the ability to know where you are, who you know, what you look like, and what you're doing at any given time. This power is already being abused, but the same abuse that's currently being targeted at immigrants and protesters can later be directed towards anyone. America is becoming a surveillance state, and too many aren't concerned because the victims so far are primarily those they've been told are the enemy. Many of these forms of digital surveillance are effectively unavoidable, but not all. For example, your internet service provider likely keeps some amount of data on your browsing history, and in the US, this could be handed over to the government if they have a proper subpoena warrant. Well, this is not too much of a concern for most. It's just one of almost endless examples of where our sponsor, NordVPN, would be useful. Turning their VPN on creates an encrypted tunnel between yourself and their VPN server, and unlike many internet service providers, NordVPN doesn't keep any usage data that they could hand over to a government even if they were compelled to. They've even been independently reviewed by PwC in Deloitte to assure that this is really true. But beyond evading government surveillance, NordVPN has plenty other practical applications too. For example, it can also get around government firewalls. If you're traveling or living in a place where certain sites are blocked, NordVPN allows you to virtually redirect your traffic through one of their servers in any number of countries, allowing you to browse a more open version of the internet. The same works for geoblocking on websites. If your streaming service isn't allowing you to watch something based on where you're browsing from, NordVPN can fix that with just a few clicks. It's also great for day-to-day internet security. There's threat protection pro system, automatically blocks dangerous ads, pop-ups, or websites, reducing the risk of getting malware. The use is gone, but the point is that, in my opinion, a VPN is a crucial tool for any internet user today. I find myself using NordVPN for something on pretty much a daily basis. If you'd like to sign up, they're offering an exclusive deal for when-to-reviewers, including four months extra when you go to NordVPN.com's Lash Wendover, or click the link in the description. And it's worth giving them a shot since it's risk-free with their 30-day money-back guarantee.