Described derisively, the National Football League acts as a structure through which young men can sell the entertainment value derived from the destruction of their brains. Detractors and fans would debate that statement endlessly, but to the league itself, what's true hardly matters. What matters is what people believe. One can hardly overstate just how colossal the NFL is. Whether by revenue per team, revenue per game or just revenue outright, it is by far the largest sports league in the world. It's annual revenue is similar to that of McDonald's. Just one team, the Dallas Cowboys, is about as big financially as planet fitness, the largest gym chain in the world. The only live broadcast to have ever been viewed by more Americans than a Super Bowl was the Apollo 11 moon landing, while each week, about one in every 16 Americans tunes into their Sunday Night Football broadcast, making it the most successful TV program to have ever existed. But this supremacy is facing a reckoning because more and more people are coming to believe that American football is bad. More and more people are being convinced by the scientific evidence that American football frequently causes permanent damage to the brain, leading to debilitating cognitive dysfunction later in life. The immediate risk to the league's financial interests is not that people are going to tune out on mass out of discomfort with the way their dollars incentivize neural destruction. Football has always been perceived as a dangerous sport. It's something different, but something that the NFL is taking seriously as one of the biggest long-term threats to America's most popular contact sport. But as a point of comparison, take, ice hockey, America's second most popular contact sport. Well, the national hockey league has admitted the danger of brain injuries in its sport and implemented changes to mitigate their impact, the league appears far less concerned than the NFL in the threat to its financials. But on the surface level, it looks like they should be. According to Harvard Research Into The Matter, the NFL has a per game per player concussion rate that's 3.8 times higher than that of the NHL. In a given game, a professional football player is far likely to get a concussion than a professional hockey player, but what that actually means in practice is that in a season, the hockey player is likely to get a concussion since the NHL schedule includes 4.8 times more games than the NFL. Other studies back this up. Ice hockey has a similar, if not slightly, higher rate of concussions than American football. The thing is though, a single concussion is rarely a long-term issue. Typically, although not always, it's a short-term problem involving short-term cognitive impairment. A high school athlete might struggle to retain knowledge for a test, they might become irritable more often with their parents, they might be highly sensitive to light and noise, but typically the symptoms subside within a couple of weeks. A subset of concussions do lead to long-term or permanent issues, and the likelihood of these goes up with each additional concussion one receives, but permanent, cognitive impairment, specifically from sports-induced concussions is rare, and it's even rare that these permanent impairments are significant. Concussion rates are a misleading indicator for the volume of cognitive disability a sport is likely to create. Ice hockey players frequently skate faster than 20 miles or 32 kilometers per hour, which leads to some very big hits, but compared to football, these hits happen at a different rate. Checks are only legal against a player in possession of a puck and can only be made from the front or to the side. Checking from behind is strictly prohibited, punished with some of the costliest penalties in the sport, is it can lead to one's head or spine absorbing the brunt of the impact into the boards. Typically, checking is also focused against the boards whose glass flexes and absorbs some of the impact since offense can more effectively evade defense in center ice. When put into practice, this means that hits are relatively infrequent. One study found that men's college hockey players experienced an average of 287 head impacts in a season. In football, though, head impacts occur between 1,000 and 1,500 times a season, and potentially even more with certain positions. To those that know the game, this makes sense. The action that most commonly ends a play is a player on defense tackling the ball carrier, which frequently involves a head impact. The primary way the offensive side stops that from happening is by physically blocking opposing players, once again, frequently involving a head impact. The data suggests that a given head impact in football might be less likely than one in hockey to cause a concussion, perhaps due to the higher speeds on the ice, but each one of those more frequent impacts in football adds to a hefty accumulated sum of head trauma. And this, cumulative head impact, has been found to be far more correlated with the chances of future cognitive disability than simple concussion rates. The subtleties of that conclusion matter a tremendous amount to tackle football's future. If concussions along with the problem, there'd be more the sport could do. It'd be easier to manufacture a rule set that reduced the likelihood of the high impact collisions, likely as to lead to a concussion, and the consequences of concussions can be genuinely reduced through proper identification, treatment, and return to play protocols. But the growing academic consensus that total accumulated head trauma is what matters most suggests that the most iconic feature of the sport, the contact, is inextricably linked to future cognitive dysfunction. The chain of events that dominoed into that conclusion kicked off here at Pittsburgh's Allegheny County Medical Examiner's office in September 2002. The Neuropathologist on call, Dr. Benetomalu, new little of American football, having immigrated from Nigeria less than a decade prior, making him one of the few people in the office who didn't recognize the name attached to the corpse that arrived overnight. Mike Webster, former Pittsburgh sealer's legend. Back in the 70s, Webster had nationwide name recognition thanks to his central role in the Steelers 4x Superbowl winning offensive line. In almost every play of every game of each of his 17 seasons as a professional football player, he started by snapping the ball back to the quarterback, then charging forward and colliding head on with the opposing team's defensive line, adding up to hit after hit. But game after game, season after season, no matter how hard the hit, he'd keep lining up, earning him the nickname Iron Mike. Once his career ended though, so did his durability. Progressively, Cognitive dysfunction crept in, and eventually, Webster struggled with basic memory and decision making. He went through massive mood swings, he'd break into wild outbursts, and as his symptoms got worse, he withdrew from his family and began living out of his pickup truck. He'd stay awake for days at a time as his brain was stuck in an endless state of fight or flight, then out of desperation, he'd use a taser to shock himself, essentially resetting his nervous system in a way that allowed him to drift into sleep. As his ability to function dwindled further, a local hospital allowed him to sleep in one of their unused rooms, and it was there where he died in September 2002 from cardiac arrest. The following morning, as Webster's corpse waited for its autopsy, Dr. Ben O'Malley learned his story through co-workers and the news, but as the doctor retells it, he was left unconvinced that Webster just spontaneously went from two decades of discipling professional athlete life to one of homelessness, drug addiction, and petty crime. He thought there must have been a cause. So, despite no obvious signs of brain disease in the initial autopsy, O'Malley brought a brain tissue sample to the Department of Neurology at the University of Pittsburgh where a deeper examination found abnormal accumulations of tal proteins, the same abnormal accumulations found in patients with Alzheimer's. But Webster was too young to have Alzheimer's, it's exceedingly rare for a 50-year-old, and a deeper look at the tissue showed distinct pathology. This was something different, something that had never yet been found in a football player. This was chronic, traumatic, and cephalopathy. CTE is a hard disease to diagnose. While symptoms exhibit in a person's actions, as of today, the only way to definitively diagnose it is after death in an autopsy. The degree of examination needed is not one included in most autopsy, so to even have a shot at diagnosis, brain tissue needs to be sampled, preserved, and sent to a specialist within hours of death. Even then, there's a degree of subjectivity to diagnosis, as CTE is identified not based on the presence or quantity of tal proteins, but rather their placement and layout in the brain. In practice, the means that the vast majority of CTE cases go undiagnosed, and therefore researchers have little data to help to determine the disease's cause. While Dr. O'Malley and his collaborators were able to publish a paper about their diagnosis, the revelation alone had limited consequences for the NFL. That was until a few years later when another sealer's offensive lineman, Terry Long, died, leading to his body arriving once again at the Alleghenny County Medical Examiner's office. Dr. O'Malley took another sample for study, and there was evidence of CTE. A pattern was starting to form, and O'Malley went on the offensive, accumulating permission to examine samples from more and more former football players. Time again, he and his partners diagnosed CTE in these brains at an extraordinary rate, and the evidence mounted. With each new positive specimen, the correlation between football participation and CTE was growing irrefutable. That didn't stop the NFL from refuting it, though. They rolled out the big tobacco strategy and started with denial, hiring their own researchers to put out their own papers to spread out the work of O'Malley and others. Behind the scenes, the League orchestrated pressure campaigns on the academic journals publishing the CTE research, using their hired academics to sew down into methodologies and conclusions. But towards the end of the 2000s, Congress caught on to this, and the House Judiciary Committee's Summit NFL Commissioner Rodger Gidell to testify on the matter, bringing media attention and public pressure on the matter to its zenith. Despite the NFL's best efforts, a wide swath of America now believed the truth, that football caused CTE, and the pervasiveness of this knowledge is what convinced the NFL that it could no longer prevent the crisis. Rather, they had no choice but to address it. In the boardroom, however, the crisis was not exactly one of player health. The League's executives repeatedly demonstrated that they considered bodily damage the cost of doing business for both them and the players. Rather, the League recognized that it risked a disruption in their pipeline. Youth football is critically important to the NFL's financial interests. Not only is it where their future stars are born, but perhaps more importantly, the 999 out of a thousand players who don't make it to the NFL are the likeliest future purchasers of NFL tickets, merch, and cable packages. High school sports participation data was beginning to show a plateau in football participation starting in 2007, as head trauma awareness increased and parents grew more hesitant to get their kids hooked on a dangerous sport. And in 2011, this plateau turned into an outright decline. The NFL treats youth football participation as a leading indicator, meaning this was perceived as potentially the start of a slow decades-long cycle that threatened their supremacy over the American spectator sports industry. Therefore, the League kicked off a campaign to mitigate the risks of that happening. Now, if the American fanbase was going to contract, then one obvious solution was just to find new fans. The NFL has long dabbled with international expansion. They played preseason games outside the US for decades, and they even ran a spring development league in Europe for much the 90s and 2000s. While they eventually shuttered this out of lack of financial success, they replaced it with an annual regular season fixture in London for the following few years. Now, this was fairly unique. A true regular season game occurring on a different continent from where Sports League was based, but it proved an instrumental component of growing the versioning UK market. So, as the concussion crisis reached its peak, the league doubled down on this strategy. In 2013, they expanded from one London game to two, then the next year to three, and they even went so far as to contribute to the construction costs of the new Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in exchange for the inclusion of a retractable synthetic American football pitch for their use. Today, the league has its biggest international portfolio ever, with seven regular season games in 2025 across South Palo, Dublin, London, Berlin, and Madrid. And of course, the games are only the 10 pulls of a deeper strategy shift towards the rest of the world, encompassing broadcast deals, merchandising expansions, and other efforts to monetize and grow the clusters of American football fans outside of America. But in addition to finding new blood, the NFL also tried to stop the bleeding. To fix the youth football problem, the NFL's efforts coalesced around one particular solution, flag football. In this version of the sport, contact is prohibited or highly restricted, and rather than tackling acting as the inhibitor to the ball carriers progress, the defensive side attempts to pull a flag from a belt. Until the concussion crisis, flag football was rarely played at a genuinely competitive level. It was primarily a PE class activity, but the NFL has poured considerable resources into making flag football a viable alternative for tackle football. To provide structure, it started a youth league called NFL Flag, and that's grown to more than 1,600 teams across America. Some data indicates that flag football is now played by more youth in America than tackle football. Undoubtedly, the low injury risk and minimal equipment requirements allow for plenty of casual participation. And as these kids age, there are increasing opportunities at the collegiate level, particularly on the women's side where there's never been a mature tackle football ecosystem. And the NFL recently announced its intentions to take it to the next level by launching its own professional flag football league for both men and women. But beyond this, the NFL coordinated a campaign to include flag football in the Olympics. As a proof of concept, they sponsored its inclusion in the World Games, which is an Olympics-like event facilitating international competition for non-allympic sports. The league also got their own stars in on the effort by transforming their pro-ball format into a series of skills exhibitions, including flag football matches. And finally, they flexed the full PR muscle of the league into getting the message of support for alympics flag football out to the world. Ultimately, it worked. The International Olympic Committee approved the bid to add it to the 2028 Summer Games in Los Angeles. Although this is only a one-off inclusion, it still lends serious legitimacy to the idea that flag football is a proper sport, not just a PE activity. But for as much as flag football might be a sport, the NFL still faces the issue that it's a very different sport. While the rules are similar to those of tackle football, the strategy and incentives are fundamentally different. It's not like the difference between no contact and contact ice hockey. Flag football is a game of agility and speed. Tackle football is a game of positioning and force. Elite flag football players have the leaner builds of soccer players, rather than the big bulky bodies synonymous with tackle football players. So that's to say, the skills from flag football are only partially transferable to tackle football, so it's far from guaranteed that people will perceive it as enough the same sport for it to act as a true alternative in the shrinking youth football pipeline. It might create flag football fans, but will it create football fans? Of course, the one solution that's almost guaranteed to work is actually reducing football's injury risks. If the NFL can innovate the sport in a way that dramatically reduces CTE and concussion rates, all their troubles would melt away. For over a decade now, the league has rolled out a series of rules that create more nuanced conditions for what types of contact is and is not allowed, but the biggest rule change came in 2024 with the league completely revamping how kickoffs worked. Previously, the team started a possession by lining up on opposite sides of the field. The kicker would launch the ball far into the other side, and his team would sprint towards the receiving team attempting to block their progress as soon as possible. This resulted in massive high speed collisions given the speed accumulated from such a long run towards each other. While kickoffs represented only 6% of all plays, they were accountable for 12% of all concussions. The new system is called the dynamic kickoff, and while its rules are more complex, the consequence is that the majority of players start just 5 yards apart, massively reducing the speeds at which they encounter each other. According to the league's concussion data, this correlated with a 43% reduction in concussions during kickoffs, contributing to a 17% reduction in concussions overall during the 2024 season. The change certainly had its detractors, including American President Donald Trump, and it certainly was a highly visible change to one of football's most iconic plays. But when the sport has a fundamental issue, fundamental change is perhaps the only real fix. Today, two decades on from the first paper linking CTE to football, one decade on from a Golden Globe nominated Hollywood movie depicting the saga, and mere months on from a mass shooting in New York perpetrated by a former football player with CTE targeting NFL headquarters, understanding and awareness of CTE's prevalence and severity is only progressing further. On the academic side, in 2018 Boston University did a study on 164 brains from the general population and found no evidence of CTE in 163 of them. The one with CTE was from a college football player. Among the 376 brains they've studied from NFL players, 345 were diagnosed with CTE, a 91.7% prevalence rates, albeit amongst a biased sample. A growing number of states have seriously considered a ban on tackle football for young kids, and while proposed legislation has always been stunted by strong pushback, the trendline suggests it could only be a matter of time until some states consider it so dangerous to play tackle football that it should be treated like alcohol or tobacco. But despite more people understanding the degree of danger of football than ever, all signs suggest that the NFL has successfully navigated the threat to its financial interests, at least for now. After more than a decade of decline, the emergence from COVID coincided with a reversal in trend in youth football participation. It's still nowhere near its peak, but the bleeding has stopped. Meanwhile, league revenue is growing as fast as ever, having cleanly doubled over the past decade. And the 2025 Super Bowl was the most watched in history, with 128 million Americans tuning in. But even if the recent moment was not the reckoning that the NFL's executives so feared, and even as the league is making genuine progress at reducing the frequency of high impact collisions, there are still more subtle trendlines that are pointing the league towards a form that a future world might not accept. Since the revelations into CTE, the socio-economic background of youth tackle football players has tilted downward. More and more, it's a sport played by those from poor families. Meanwhile, the background of NFL consumers is growing wealthier. It's successfully catering to a richer demographic. Combining a better understanding of the debilitating health consequences, talents coming from poor backgrounds, and fans coming from richer backgrounds, the comparisons between football players and Roman gladiators are becoming increasingly literal. For many, football is not purely a pursuit of passion, but rather their most realistic chance at escaping the generational cycles of poverty. Nobody's forced to play professional football, but when lacking good alternatives, their circumstances can be coercive. Getting to an elite level in any sport requires a tremendous grief sacrifice. Isolation from normal life, physical and emotional pain, dedication to a career path I could end with a single injury, but the distinction with football and contact sports like it is near inescapable damage to the most critical, most irreplaceable organ in the body. The NFL brings some of the most life-changing wealth when can earn in professional sports, but it involves some of the most life-changing consequences. So even if inertia has won out for now, the question for the NFL's future is how much longer people will be comfortable with what they watch in their couch dictating how many young men get condemned to a life of psychological torment once they hang up the cleats. If you're trying to decide what to watch next, well then I have a suggestion for you. It's our brand new docuseries called Scaff. Basically, myself and the Windover team heard about the world's largest annual scavenger hunt, which takes place at the University of Chicago, so we hired some film crews, flew to Chicago, spent a week filming the chaos, and in the next couple months editing to bring you Scaff. The first few episodes are up right now on Nabila, and this is just one part of the large and growing catalog of Nabila original content. We've also made the Getaway, a social deduction game shown wheels with a twist, a ball-sh-everything, a comedy debate show filmed in front of a live audience, and the logistics of X. A Windover style series explaining some of the most interesting logistical systems. And that's just what we've made. There's a curated collection of 250 or so creators also posting on Nabila, many of whom have made their own originals. Bobby Broccoli, for example, made a fantastic documentary about one of the largest scientific controversies of the 20th century, while real-life lore has a series called Mad Kings about the world's most influential dictators and kings. I couldn't possibly list off every original, but if you're the kind of person who watches a lot of online video, it's worth giving Nabila a try. That's because it's creator-run and creator-owned, designed to be the best home for our work. Making it pay-walled instead of ad-supported removes the incentives to chase clicks over quality, and also provides the funding to make these higher budget, higher-calibre Nabila originals. And of course, even besides the originals, you still get a ton of values since we all publish our regular videos there first and without any ads or sponsorships. Tens of thousands of Windover viewers have signed up for Nabila, and if you want to see why, you can do so with a free trial when you head over to nebula.tv slash windover. That link will also get you 40% off an annual subscription or the lifetime subscription, where you pay once and get Nabila access forever. Signing up also helps support us in hundreds of other independent creators, so thanks in advance if you do.