Between the new administration in Washington, the rise of AI, and the wars in Gaza and Ukraine, news headlines in 2025 have been clogged with just a few huge persistent stories. But plenty more was going on hidden behind the headlines, so today, for our last video of the year, we're going to cover one piece of news from each of the 193 UN member states, starting here in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia sent a $368 million aid package to Yemen, a sum meant to build financial stability and pay for aid as Yemen continues to struggle through a now decade-long war perpetuating one of the worst humanitarian crises on the planet. In 2014, an Iran-back rebel group of Houthis overthrew the government, and the Saudis led an opposition coalition since they viewed the conflict as a proxy fight with Iran. This year's large contribution to Yemen demonstrates their continued commitment to that fight. Like all oil-producing countries along the Persian Gulf, Oman's authoritarian structure allowed the ruling party to reap disproportionate financial benefits from fossil fuel sales and distribute profits less evenly in the form of subsidies to its residents. But as the future of oil becomes less stable and countries look to diversify revenue, one of the options is taxation. Oman became the first country in this area to institute an income tax this year, and though it's just 5% and applies only to those making more than $109,000 year, the country's neighbors are closely watching, wondering if authoritarianism can survive taxation. The United Arab Emirates is also looking to diversify, and a newer core part of that strategy centers around pouring money into AI. The UAE signed an agreement with the United States to build the world's largest AI data center outside of America, potentially giving it access to more than half million in video chips. The Emirates has been uniquely successful in its balancing act of striking AI-related deals with the US, a key strategic ally, while also working deeply with China, its largest trading partner. American officials had previously imposed export controls on advanced technology like Nvidia GPUs to the UAE due to its relationship with China, but this new deal for a 10-square-mile campus in Abu Dhabi marks a reversal of that status quo. Another way that Middle Eastern countries are looking to diversify their economies and grow more integrated with the rest of the wealthy world is by hosting global events. That's true for Qatar, which announced that in 2026 it will become the first Gulf country to host art basil, the world's largest modern and contemporary art fair, Bahrain, which continues to host former-the-one races, gaining a contract extension through 2036, despite opposition in recent years surrounding accusations of human rights violations, and Saudi Arabia, well known for sportswashing, which was selected to host the FIFA World Cup in 2034, even though organizations such as Amnesty International spoke out against the selection. Also looking to diversify its economy, Kuwait welcomed the addition of a third runway at its international airport. A new control tower was also erected as part of the nation's initiative to broaden its influence on the regional map, expanding its potential for increased passenger traffic and laying the groundwork to position itself as a major hub similar to Doha, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai. Iraq experienced one of the worst sandstorms in its history, shutting two of its airports and sending several thousand people to the hospital. The country is no stranger to the weather event, which reduces visibility to less than a half mile and permeates people's homes through even the smallest seams, but as climate change worsens, Iraq is listed as one of the United Nations's most vulnerable countries to its effects, and storms like this will become more common and severe. Moving west, several countries in this region sit at a nexus of conflict in 2025. Jordan, on the border of Israel, is engaged by proximity to its neighboring countries war, and is dealing with the repercussions in its own way, including banning Jordan's chapter of the Muslim Brotherhood. The political Islamist group has representation in government, winning 31 out of the 138 available seats, but Jordan has long been wary of its rise because the Brotherhood is seen as an ally of Hamas. The ban was in response to the rest of 16 of its members who were training militants and plotting strikes within Jordan. Jordan has been critical of the war in Gaza, and yet, in a balancing act familiar to many in the region, it maintains a long-standing peace treaty with Israel. In Israel, despite a shaky ceasefire, the country's military campaign in Gaza has remained central in the country's politics this year. But unlike in Gaza, regular life and business in the country has continued as well, and an action by Prime Minister Benjamin Nenyaahu's government turns some heads. In 2023, he started a judicial overhaul that was paused after the war started that October, but this year it was revived when Israel's parliament passed a law that would give the government more power in appointing judges. Some see it as a power grab by Nenyaahu's far right government, but he argues it simply gives power back to elected officials that had been taken away. More than 10,000 United Nations peacekeepers have been stationed on Israel's border with Lebanon for a quarter century to manage the volatile region where Iranian back his Bola continues to have a presence. But that will change, as the UN Security Council voted to have the peacekeepers with draw over the next year, giving autonomy to the Lebanese to control their southern border. While the withdrawal could be seen to represent increasing stability in the region, it's more so that the peacekeepers' mission has become obsolete. Both sides view them critically as his Bola considers them sympathetic to Israel while Israel sees them as ineffective since they cannot use force unless fired upon. In a step towards restoring a country from turmoil, Syria held its first parliamentary elections since the fall of ruler Bashar al-Assad in 2024, who led the country for more than a decade and held what most considered sham elections to keep hold to power. While 2025's elections were not fully free and fair, the fact that they happened in two-thirds of districts brings some power back to the people and their ability to choose representation, marking an important step towards the goal of true popular vote democratic elections later on. This resource-rich region continues to search for more natural gas and oil reserves as demands bikes while Europe seers away from dependence on Russia. Another natural gas field was found 118 miles or 190 km south of Cyprus and its exclusive economic zone, helping to further that goal. The deposit, discovered by a consortium including Exxon Mobil and Qatar Energy International, is the sixth natural gas field to be discovered in the zone in the past 15 years. Political unrest continues in Turkey where Istanbul's mayor Ekrem Imamoglu remains behind bars on accusations of corruption and espionage. Imamoglu is widely seen as President Erdogan's biggest political rival. Under Erdogan's rule, Turkey has grown increasingly authoritarian and the charges against Imamoglu for many represent just one more step in that direction as they're viewed as a means to silence Erdogan's largest opposition. Tensions, however, between Armenia and Azerbaijan seem to be quieting as a peace deal between the countries was signed in August. The neighbors have been fighting over the Nagorno-Karabakh region since the end of the Cold War and the 17-page treaty, months in the making, outlines set protocols for bringing some stability to the disputed lands. The former Soviet state of Georgia was hung to several nuclear sites during those unified years in the 80s and even today uranium remains in the country. But this year, a group of Chinese nationals attempted to purchase some of it, 4.4 pounds or 2 kilograms for $400,000, but their efforts were thwarted when police swarmed their car with two glass jars of the substance and the trunk. The arrest signifies a larger issue in that even though it's illegal to sell and transport uranium, which can be enriched for nuclear weapons, the lack of control over the country's remaining supply of the compound makes it a viable black market source for the extremely dangerous material. In Iran, aging water storage and transport infrastructure is exacerbating a year's long drought that peaked in July when temperatures reached 125 degrees Fahrenheit or 52 degrees Celsius. Residents in the capital of Tehran were asked to limit water consumption due to the country's dwindling reservoirs as officials looked to neighboring countries to import water and additionally instituted power cuts to deal with the heat wave, all signs of the warming planets effects on daily life. Five central Asian countries, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan met for their first summit with the European Union to address trade, counterterrorism, climate and energy independence. The regions ties to Europe have become more critical since the Russian invasion of Ukraine and these countries are looking to diversify their economies and geopolitical strategies. One of the major projects to progress these goals is a Trans-Kasbian Transport Corridor, which connects China to Europe while bypassing Russia and eliminating ship transport to the Suez Canal. The region shifting alliances and jockeying from mineral rights, part of Europe's interest in the region, are also shadowed by human rights concerns which was a main topic for the summit in ensuring that quick-paced development considers residents and their environment. Mongolia typically makes news for its vast and wild lands, home to nomadic tribes, but this year an unusually public political controversy played out on the country's Prime Minister, Zendash<|ru|> leadership election to him and accusations about corruption flew between the two. It left the country in disarray ahead of budgeting at a time when teachers and doctors were striking for higher wages. China released its latest five-year strategic plan, a hugely important guiding policy document, and this addition was all about increasing its autonomy. The plans call for chip independence and a direct response to its ongoing chip war with the United States, with the Asian nation catching up to historical American dominance in the field. Additionally, as America pulls back its own scientific funding and research, China plans to continue to invest and keep its title as the world's biggest R&D spender to the tune of $505 billion in 2023. All of this is evident of how these days global dominance is largely being fought through the tech sector. It's been more than four years since the Taliban re-assumed control of Afghanistan, but this year, Russia became the first country to officially recognize them as the country's government. In an effort to encourage diplomatic ties, the Taliban have tried to present a more moderate stance, curbing things like opium production, but their oppressive policies towards women, which banned them from most education work and public places, have repelled most of the world. The acknowledgement from Russia opened the door for opportunistic cooperation on trade and energy production. Since the Taliban took over power in Afghanistan, a tax buy to Rik-E Taliban have significantly increased in neighboring Pakistan. The Taliban government denies involvement, but it's widely believed the TTP receives funding from them and that it's fighters train in Afghanistan. This ensuing conflict escalated in the fall with the country's exchanging air strikes and fire, resulting in dozens of deaths and injuries. And though a ceasefire was negotiated, it's tenuous because the underlying reason Taliban committing violence in Pakistan remains. The world's most polluted city, Delhi, India, tested out cloud seating as a way to eliminate pollution from its hazy skies for the first time in more than five decades. Seeding uses aircraft and drones to release silver iodide into the atmosphere, which acts like ice and builds clusters of water droplets that increase rainfall. Something that in turn captures pollutants as it comes down, but in this test case, there wasn't enough moisture in the air to make rain. Officials will try again, but critics are wary of a band-aid approach to the problem, instead of addressing the root cause, which is centered on the combination of crop burning, factories, and heavy traffic. As India tries to strengthen its presence in the Indian Ocean, a region fiercely contested due to China's ambitions to control its seas and shipping routes. It extended a $565 million line of credit to the Maldives, which is a cast-strapped, puts strategically critical partner to India. The step enhances the two countries's ties, despite Maldives' president Mohamed Muizu previously expressing a preference and strategy that would be viewed as pro-China. A nationwide power outage in Sri Lanka that left the island of 22 million people without electricity wasn't found to be caused by infrastructure failure, it was a monkey's fault. The animal climbed a power station and caused enough damage to affect the entire country, something that highlights two problems that Sri Lanka has, an enormous monkey population with estimates around 2-3 million, and a vulnerable and aging energy grid that can be brought down by one small creature. Tens of thousands of Gen Z protesters took to the streets of Nepal this year, initially in response to perceived censorship by the government on social media apps, and their uprising worked surprisingly well, ousting the Prime Minister in just days. One consequence was the appointment of the country's first female Prime Minister, Sushili Karki, who will lead the interim government until new elections take place in 2026. Karki was Nepal's former Chief Justice and is seen as a critic of the corruption that many, including the wave of Gen Z activists, saw creeping into their government. Tourism in Bhutan continues to see double digit growth, drawing largely from India and America for its visitor base. To meet this demand, the government instituted a tourism registration system that streamlines hotel check-ins and make sure that guests stay at valid properties while also collecting data from visitors and providers in order to manage the growth of the industry in an effort to keep it sustainable and secure. Upstream from Bangladesh China started construction on the world's largest mega-dam. It went 124 billion dollar project that will consist of five cascade hydro power stations and produce an estimated 300 million megawatt hours of electricity. The problem from Bangladesh, however, is that the dam is being built on the Yarlong-Sungpo River, and residents are concerned that the dam could impact millions of users downstream where residents rely on the river for sustenance and and agriculture. Bangladesh and India have also raised concerns that upstream water control could be weaponized by China. Bangladesh's share border with Myanmar has been an escape route for Rohingya refugees fleeing the civil war there, which is stretching into its fourth year. Since 2017, Bangladesh has hosted more than one million Rohingya, but the government is now turning them back to Myanmar, a country that stripped the mostly Muslim ethnic minority of their citizenship more than 40 years ago, and continues genocidal violence, according to the United Nations. Without papers and authority to cross borders, it leaves the Rohingya in a dire situation. Thailand elected its third prime minister in three years, naming business tycoon a newton charn vehicle to lead the country. And though charn vehicle might come across as casual with this pro-Canabas stance and karaoke singing ways, he's a shrewd and conservative leader who swings the country's trajectory away from the populist direction it was headed. Although he'll have to do it with his hands tied as supporting parties have demanded he hold another election for representative seats shortly after taking office. Tensions between Thailand and Cambodia over their 500-mile border escalated this year, reaching a peak with a five-day armed conflict in the summer. Although they signed a tenuous ceasefire, peace negotiations have stalled as flare-ups and accusations continue to fly between the two countries. Both continue to place restrictions on each other as well, limiting certain items they typically trade like fruits and vegetables, as well as reducing access to the internet and shortening visa stays. China's continual expansion of energy development and its impacts on other countries also stretches into Laos, where it's built the largest onshore wind farm in Southeast Asia, featuring 133 turbines for nearly one billion dollars. The monsoon wind power projects built by power China and run by a Thai consortium doesn't actually deliver any power to Laos, but it's said ships it across the border to Vietnam. Another example of how one of the planet's biggest greenhouse gas emitters exploits the resources of neighboring countries. Low birth rates and their potential impacts on populations and economies is a problem that countries are facing in different ways. In Vietnam, the government is reversing a decades-old policy that limited families to two children in hopes of bringing that average birth rate back above two children per woman. Additionally, the government has gone as far as to offer financial incentives for having more children before 35 and for shortening the time between births, all in an effort to stave off the effects that declining populations have on long-term economic prospects. Moscow residents looking to get away can now fly eight hours nonstop to North Korea, signifying a deepening tie between the two countries. The pair already share defense pact and cooperate in military operations as North Korea has sent troops and weapons to Russia for its war in Ukraine. The monthly Moscow Pyongyang flight is operated by Norwend Airways, which previously focused on flights to vacation destinations before the EU's airspace ban hampered its operations. Conventional tourism is still banned in North Korea, but groups of Russians and other foreigners have been allowed to trickle in as it opens its border. Most notably seen in the debut of a East Coast beach resort expected to draw some 20,000 people. The birth rate in South Korea is dismal, a just 0.74 birth per woman, but even that low number is an improvement on 0.72 in 2023 and marks the sharpest percentage increase since the early 90s. That's primarily thanks to policy initiatives including baby bonuses and cash rewards. Seoul alone spent more than $270 billion of the past 16 years on childbirth incentives. And yet, even with that huge investment, officials still think it's not enough to save off a precipitous population decline. Rice is a food staple in Japan, but depleted crops due to heat wave and increased consumption from tourists paired with panic buying ahead of weather events has increased prices so drastically in the country that it's looking to South Korea for cheaper imports. South Korea will export rice to Japan for the first time since 1999, marking an economic and cultural shift for the country which previously snubbed foreign rice imports as inferior. Maritime confrontations between the Philippines and China continually take place in the South China Sea over contested waters, but in a more aggressive incident this year, two Chinese ships accidentally collided during a chase of a Philippines patrol boat, and the United States deployed two of its own warships to demonstrate support for its Philippines ally. Surrounding countries are fighting over fishing, economic zones, and disputed waters in the area, and though US patrols regularly pass through, the appearance in reaction to Chinese aggression does raise the temperature. The South Pacific is home to rich habitat and diverse ecosystems where populations of orangutans, one of the most genetically similar primates to humans, used to thrive. Today however, wisewast of force are being cleared in Indonesia specifically to harvest Maranty, a wood specialized to the area that's lightweight, moisture resilient, flexible, and used primarily in American motorhomes and recreational vehicles. This year scientists in Indonesia and Malaysia released a study about orangutans who were relocated when force were cleared for logging, and in nearly one-third of the cases tracked, those animals attempted to return home after translocation. Singapore held its first parliamentary election in five years, and though some speculated that the opposition party was gaining momentum, citizens re-emphasized their contentment with the status quo by keeping the People's Action Party in charge. The party experienced near record low turnout in 2020, but this year's results extend their six-decade reign in politics, choosing what some call stability in a time when the country is dealing with global trade disruptions. Home to the world's second-largest port, Singapore is disproportionately exposed to fluctuations in international trade, so minimizing those impacts is key to the People's Action Party's success. Despite widespread economic sanctions, Russia continues to search for markets for its exports, and one of those is Brunei. The small country on the South China Sea received its first shipment of Russian oil through the northern sea route. Previously, the Arctic route had been limited to shipping to China, but this extension is the result of a deliberate push by Russia to market the NSR route, which links the country's western ports to Asia during the summer and fall, and cut shipping time by 10 days in bypassing the Suez Canal. Russia's diplomatic relationship with Brunei is key for the country as it tries to maintain a presence in the ASEAN, or Association of Southeast Asian Nations, region. The group is a block of regional countries that are unified in economic and security interests, and in 2025, East to More became the 11th country to join. East to More, which was ruled by Portugal for three centuries, only achieved independence in 2002, so it's entry into ASEAN was seen as a momentous next step for the small country in trying to achieve stability. Sydney, Australia's new airport saw its first jet flight this year as it nears its opening date for passengers in late 2026. Brand new airports of this scale are rarely built these days, making the opening significant, and the facility is expected to one day rival London's Heathrow Airport in terms of passenger capacity. Sydney's current airport, the primary gateway to the entire country, is stretched to capacity and hampered by its 11pm curfew, but this new western Sydney airport will operate 24 hours a day thanks to its more rural location. The ruling right wing coalition in New Zealand voted to reverse the government's ban on offshore oil and gas exploration. The country has a significant cost of living crisis that high energy prices and shortages have contributed to, and although the reversal is being portrayed as in response to these difficulties, it simultaneously takes New Zealand off its trajectory towards carbon neutrality. Furthermore, the coalition plans to boost mineral exports to $3 billion by 2035 and cut funding to conservation and climate initiatives. In a deal that's as official as becoming blood brothers, the largest and most popular South Pacific nation, Papua New Guinea, signed a defense treaty with Australia, inking the declaration that they have each other's backs. The alliance, years in the making, means Australia can rely on Papua New Guinea for access to the island nation's military infrastructure, while Papua New Guinea can rely on its larger neighbor for security and deterrence. The move comes as China continues to expand its presence and power in the region, and this pact is the most recent attempt for the West to counter that spreading influence. Palau is ground zero for the consequences of climate change, but this year it made news for another reason. It rejected a proposal from the United States to send asylum seekers to the tiny island nation. As America ramps up its anti-immigration efforts and looks to send people away, it offered Palau up to $100,000 per deportee for a total of $7.5 million to accept 75 people. But despite the money and deep relationship with the US, officials on the island said it was not worth the cost and potential security concerns, leaving America to look to other countries. After several years of delay, the federated states of Micronesia are now linked, technologically. It went 140-mile, $95 million undersea cable now connects several Micronesia and islands, including Pompeii, its largest, to an existing cable linked to Guam. The fiber optic East Micronesia cable, a joint venture by Japan, the United States, and Australia, will benefit some 100,000 people in the oceanic area by bringing cheaper, faster internet and communications. Six years after a Hong Kong owned ship ran aground on coral east of Rennel Island in the Solomon Islands, damaging the reef in lagoon, killing wildlife and contaminating drinking water, the landowners and government are finally seeking justice. They are suing a handful of companies potentially liable for damage caused by the spill, as up into this point nothing more than an apology had been issued, despite widespread damage and assumed long-term health consequences. The first members of what's known as the NYZQ cohort, a group of hundreds of long-term immigrant detainees in Australia, were sent to Nauru as part of a 30-year, $2.5 billion deal. The group were immigrants to Australia who had been convicted of crimes, served their senses, but then had their visas revoked due to their crimes. While most in the situation would be deported, this cohort couldn't be for various reasons like lacking identity documents, refusal by their home country, or refugee status, meaning they were stuck in legal limbo. The high court in Australia ruled they couldn't be held indefinitely in immigration detention if they had no viable path to deportation, so Australia struck a deal with Nauru to transfer them there with long-term visas. The ruling and subsequent agreement with Nauru was shrouded in some levels of secrecy and criticized by human rights groups. Australia, on the other hand, is welcoming residents of Tuvalu with an offer of climate visas. The tiny nation, comprising nine islands that span just 10 square miles, is increasingly succumbing to the effects of climate change as its waters rise and affect infrastructure and drinking water. Australia offered a first of its kind, live-and-work climate change visa to Tuvalu residents, and more than half the country of 10,000 people have already applied. Geography constrained the super-skitty martial islands, meaning it has little ability to field a soccer team, mostly due to its lack of pitch-space and general interest. But in 2025, it became the last country in the world to put together a national team and play its first match. Never mind that the game took place 6,200 miles away in Arkansas, where the largest population of Marshall Island expatries live, the Marshallese were thrilled to finally play an 11-aside game after dedicating years to its creation, even if they lost a zero to four to the US version islands. Vanila 2 offers a Golden Passport program, where foreigners can spend about $130,000 to purchase citizenship to the island nation. Criticisms of the program, however, arose in cases like Andrew Tates. He was arrested in 2022 for human trafficking and rape in Romania and purchased the citizenship around the same time, highlighting the appeal of the program to criminals looking to escape authorities. Despite still being under investigation, this year Vanila 2 said it would not revoke his citizenship. As heavy, more intense rainfall on the Pacific Island countries of Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga increases, so too do cases of dengue fever. The potentially deadly viral illness is spread by 80s mosquitoes, which flourish in humid, hot, moist environments, a kind that are proliferating in these low-lying countries. The dramatic rise in cases this year pushes them to the highest infection level in more than a decade, despite intense efforts to fight mosquitoes and several of the nations declared a medical emergency. The Pacific region is home to unquantifiable potential for deep sea mining of critical minerals used in computer chips, and there is an international race to lead this charge. Nations here are approaching it differently, with some hesitant to exploit a natural resource for quick gain, but others, like Caribas, are increasingly headed towards inking deals. This year it announced a potential partnership with China to commercially mine Caribas' economic exclusion zone, which is one of the largest in the Pacific. Antarctica is the only continent without a government, instead loosely overseeing by a 54-nation treaty that's been in place since 1959. There are, however, seven countries that lay some territorial claim to Antarctica, and the trip that Gabriel Boric, President of Chile, took to the South Pole this year, was to remind the world that his country is one of those with deeper interests in the continent. He's the first Latin American leader to make the trip, marking a significant milestone as he pushes for expansion of Chilean research stations further south. A global treasure hunt for a stolen painting that was taken by the Nazis from a Jewish art dealer in Amsterdam during World War II, came to an end in Argentina. Officials have been looking for portrait of a lady for decades, but it was a reporter for the Dutch newspaper AD who uncovered that it was hanging in the home of Friedrich and Patricia Kedgin. The reporter had been sleuthing online and found the portrait in a photo in a real estate listing of the Kedginns. Patricia is the daughter of a Nazi financier, so it was suspected that she may have the peace. The world's largest electric ship started operations with regular ferry crossings from Buenos Aires to Uruguay. Manufactured by Tasmanian-based INCAT, the ship features 250 tons of batteries and capacity for 40 megawatt hours electricity, which will power it to carry more than 2,000 passengers and 225 cars on its one-hour journey to Montevideo. Shipping, which accounts for 3% of the world's greenhouse gases, is increasingly looking to transition to cleaner systems, and this protected and contained use case will help manufacturers if they continue to develop new technology. Brazilian officials have plans to build a 600 mile when 1,000 kilometer railway to transport corn and soybeans from the rainforest to tributary of the Amazon River, where it can then be ferry to boats headed abroad. But the railway must first clear hurdles, the first of which is a redesignation of the National Parks Boarder, and the second large amounts of public outcry, including protesters who gathered at this year's United Nations Climate Summit. They are opposed to the deforestation the project would create, although proponents say each 170 car train could replace 422 trucks, which often result in spills and longer transport times over the varied terrain. Paraguay in present Santiago Pena made international sports part of his candidacy, and it paid off. It was announced that the country would be the host of the 2031 Pan American Games. The first time Paraguay will host the event. The Pan American Games act as a warm-up to the summer Olympics across the Americas, and ranks as the third-largest multi-sport event in the world, so the naming of Paraguay as a host elevates the country on the global scale, putting it in the same category as previous host countries like Peru and Chile. The people of Bolivia elected Rodrigo Paz as their new president, marking the end of a 20-year reign by the movement for socialism party. Paz, a center-right politician, won as the country deals with soaring inflation and high cost of food and fuel, and he was able to capitalize on internal fighting within the Maas party. The Paz pitched himself as an outsider. He is the son of former believe-in-present Jamie Paz Zamora, who led from 1989 to 1993, and his election is representative of a broader regional political swing towards the right in recent years. The Amazon rainforest stretches into nine South American countries, but in Peru, where it occupies more than 10% of the land, conflict between modern development and indigenous groups continues and reached an alarming high this year. That's because the Mastro Piro group, which remains one of the area's last uncontacted tribes, was recently area-ly photographed visiting another neighboring tribe. A behavior that experts consider quite abnormal and likely in response to increasing pressure on the Metro Piro's land from a nearby logging company who is clearing forest around them. Leaders in Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela all made news. Ecuadorian president Daniel Nibboa survived with summer calling an assassination attempt by protesters who pummeled his motorcade with stones in reaction to his policy raising diesel prices in order to offset increased government spending. Previously, Ecuador had been a relatively safe country, but it's seen a surge in violence in recent years. In part due to its position between Peru and Colombia, Colombia has long been recognized as a central hub for drug production and trafficking, and this year present Gustavo Petro made a pitch to the United Nations to remove the coca leaf from its list of harmful substances. The coca leaf is the main ingredient in cocaine, and Colombian officials are arguing that the US-led war on drugs is ineffective. Instead, they say, the coca leaf should be legalized due to its additional therapeutic properties. And finally, President Nicolas Maduro remained isolated and under international sanctions, but in 2024, he met with former UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and this year it was discovered that Johnson was allegedly paid $325,000 for that meeting. This interaction and the revelations of payment raise a lot of global eyebrows, given that it's likely an avenue for back channel diplomacy to a country regarded as off limits. Venezuela has long been a major oil producer, but even if that industry shrank recently, its next-door neighbors, Guiana and Sirinam, have been taking notes. For years, offshore oil exploration only led to minor discoveries, but in recent years, that changed. Now, in acquisition by Chevron of Houston-based Hess, allows a $53 billion drilling project in Guiana's waters to move forward. Chevron and Exxon have been battling over Hess's shares in the joint project, and the settling of the dispute means they can now expand further in one of the most promising new production fields in the world. Off the coast of Sirinam, large deposits have also been discovered, and the country, one of the poorest, is expected to begin production by 2028. Residents there elected their first female president this year, and are looking to her with hope in leading this next chapter, one that's ultimately dependent on fossil fuels, but has the potential to lead them out of poverty. The US has been heavily involved in Panama, as of late, and in the country's western edge, home to the nation's banana plantations, it's been no different. Following pension reform on the part of the Panamanian government, labor unrest boiled over with protests, looting, and even the burning of a local baseball stadium in the country's banana belt. This was then continued into a strike. In response, the US-based Chiquita decided to take a hard-line stance, proactively firing all day laborers who left their plantation work, a number estimated at around 5,000 total. In Costa Rica, things are generally looking up. In a country that's proudly invested in its people's well-being, opting to fund education and forced conservation over a military, the nation reached its highest-ever ranking in the world happiness index this year by coming in at 6th. That makes it the highest ranking in the Americas, and globally sitting just behind the Netherlands, and the traditionally high-ranking Scandinavian countries. But this ranking hasn't made Costa Rica immune to broader regional strife. In June, Roberto Sancom, a former Nicaragua and Army officer, was shot and killed in San Jose Costa Rica, in what seemed to be a politically motivated attack. An outspoken critic of Nicaragua's increasingly authoritarian regime, led by President Daniel Ortega, Sancom is the second activist who have been attacked abroad while more and more Nicaraguan's of all sorts have continued to flee the country. International movement of a very different sort is the theme for a scientific experiment taken on by a host of researchers from Florida and Honduras. Two years after a major coral bleaching event of the Costa Miami, local scientists have now begun to transplant Elcorn coral from Honduras to revitalize the reef. It's a strategy that's worked in other cases and one that may help Florida's reefs going forward as they're pulling coral that's used to a higher average temperature from warmer, Honduran waters. In El Salvador, the national crackdown on bad behavior that's captured the world's attention has officially trickled down into the schools. Recently, the Bukala government handed over the state education system to a military officer with no background in education. The result has been a crackdown on loose adherence to school uniforms and the implementation of a high and tight haircut policy that has critics labeling the moves as further small steps towards a more nationalistic and authoritarian regime. It's hard to argue that there's ever been a year where the movement of people between the US and Guatemala has been so hotly contested. In August, this relationship brought forward its oddest chapter yet with a discovery of the presence of the new world's screw worm in Maryland. Brought north from Guatemala by an unknowing person, this worm is a parasite that can devastate a cow population untreated, so much so that the US Department of Agriculture spends millions yearly spreading sterilized males throughout Central America to stop their spread. Though, in this case, the CDC ultimately wasn't too particularly concerned by the isolated incident. In Belize, bank notes got an important facelift this year. Removing Queen Elizabeth from the paper money, the country opted to celebrate its post-colonial history with the face of the country's first prime minister and that of the founder of one of the country's main political parties. Beyond imagery, the notes needed an upgrade for increased security features and general durability. 2025 has tested the strength of the relationship between Trinidad and Tobago and the UK. With the former being a Commonwealth country, its citizens have four years enjoyed relative ease of travel to the UK, requiring no visa. But with the siloam seekers from Trinidad and Tobago up to all time highs, the UK has now begun to require a visa for visitors from the country, making it one of three Commonwealth nations requiring such paperwork to visit. One of the others required to register such paperwork is Dominica, which this year made its own news with the country's largest drug bust on record. Seizing 30-hundred pounds or 1700 kilograms of cocaine, numerous firearms, thousands of dollars of cash and making 24 arrests, the bust marked a major win for the tiny nation's efforts to snuff out organized crime. Grenada, another Commonwealth country in the Caribbean, has recently upped the pressure on British royalty for reparation payments fueled by recently published research that King George IV, who ruled in the early 19th century, received direct payments from two crowned owned plantations on the island. Grenada officials are using this finding to further their claim that British royalty directly benefited from slave labor and ought to write a historical wrong by paying for the damages. An upstart air carrier took a major step towards furthering the connections across the region with the unveiling of its new plane, the spirit of Barbados. For inter-cribian airways, the unveiling of the ATR-42 is part of the country's expansion into Barbados, or easily linking the island with the rest of the Caribbean region. Same Vincent and the Grenadines was one of four Caribbean countries, along with Barbados, Belize, and Dominica, that signed an expanded free movement agreement. Previously, citizens were only allowed to travel between those nations for work, but this loose restriction means they can move for leisure now, too. St. Lucia made big progress in LGBTQ rights this year. The nation's Supreme Court found its buggery and gross indecency laws that criminalize consensual same-sex intercourse with up to 10 years in prison to be unconstitutional. It marks a major victory for activists across the region that are fighting anti-LGBTQ sentiments in the courts, both literal and of public opinion, where acceptance has progressed very gradually. Far from Eastern Europe, the global implications of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are still reverberating in Antigua and Barbuda. In March, a judge in New York issued subpoenas to access the financial information in regard to the sale of the Alpha Nero Megayot. Formerly abandoned by Russian businessman when sanctions began to roll out in 2022, the nation seized then sold the Megayot. But now, the details of the sale, and who really is the rightful owner of the yacht, are being questioned by lawyers representing the Russian businessman's daughter. Such questions carry weight when the yacht itself is worth nearly $70 million. In St. Kitson-Nevis, public transportation had a rather revolutionary 2025. The country had fewer than 50,000 introduced two new buses. Making it newsworthy is the fact that they're electric buses, a proud addition for a country that's made commitments sustainability in clean transit. The buses were also gifted, as Taiwan sent them to the nation as an act of good will, an effort to strengthen the connection and flow of technological goods between the two, as St. Kitson is one of the few countries in the world to have formal diplomatic relations with the contested Asian nation. On the bisected island of Hispaniola, the year began with what the Dominican Republic President called a painful but necessary decision to crack down on Haitian migrants fleeing to the country. Persistent gang violence has pushed Haitians across the border in growing numbers, putting a strain on Dominican resources. The crackdown has played out on the border, with increased staffing and fencing, as well as within hospitals where proof of residents and IDs are now required. In Haiti, this has resulted in the return of more than 100 pregnant women, who the Dominican Republic indiscriminately deported, regardless of the stage of their pregnancy. The crackdown has garnered public condemnation from NGOs around the globe. Just west, Jamaica experienced a trying 2025, as well. What was a uniquely quiet tropical storm year for the US was a history maker there, as Jamaica's west coast took the brunt of Hurricane Melissa's force in October. Crashing into the island as a category five storm, it was the worst hurricane the country has ever endured, devastated into his and infrastructure and farmland, both of which the country heavily relies on. Food has been an issue in Cuba too. With skyrocketing food prices coupled with increasingly prevalent blackouts and water shortages, Cubans have been on edge. A nearly summer hike in internet prices seems to have been the final straw for university students who initiated coordinated attendance strikes. The protest has been characterized as brave while also respectful, as stepping too far out of line and questioning the party outright, has the potential to hinder a student's ability to graduate or find a job down the line. A year ago, the Bahamian government struck a handshake deal with SpaceX. SpaceX could land its rocket boosters in its territory if the company provided it with free starlink internet services for a variety of functions. But then this year, SpaceX treated the Bahamas to an unintentional air show with the dramatic explosion of a rocket not far off its coast. The accident threw local airlines into momentary chaos and left debris all over the island nation. In response, the Bahamian officials are questioning whether or not to allow SpaceX to land boosters, while the company insists they had a formal agreement in place. In Mexico, 2025 has been a year defined by trying to keep up with, counter and comprehend, the unrelenting pressure placed on it by its biggest and increasingly volatile trade partner, the United States. But when President Shane Balm announced in April that Mexico was to immediately deliver millions of cubic meters of water to Texas farmers, it was in accordance with an agreement made nearly 75 years ago. Sharing the Rio Grande's water by terms defined during World War II, Mexico is struggling to meet its end of the bargain as the region is gripped by drought, leaving Mexican and Texan farmers alike scrambling for water. In the United States, 2025 saw the rise of an American citizen to one of the highest most important positions in the world. In May, Cardinal Robert Francis Pridost, a 69-year-old man from Chicago who studied at Villanova, was named Pope Leo the Fourteenth. Of 267 Pope spanning 2,000 years, Pope Leo is the first to hail from the US, a country which, from the perspective of a Vatican, is fairly young with a still maturing Catholic footprint. Along Canada's West Coast, the First Nation held sick people ratified their first constitution. The document, which garnered popular support from much of the 725 in the Heltzuk Nation, serves as an amelioration between the Western systems of law and the group's long-held traditional values and practices. It also offers an alternative governmental structure to the dated and maligned Indian act that's defined Canadian First Nations relations for a century and a half. We'll be back next week for the second half of the stories you missed in 2025, but before that, there's one more story we'd like to bring to your attention. This year, our team at Wendover shot and produced a documentary series we're really proud of. It's called Scav, and it's available to stream through today's video sponsor, Nebula. Scav traces the dramatic unfolding of one of the oldest, modest, and largest annual scavenger hunts across five fast-moving episodes. And making this all possible, getting us to Chicago, editing the stow, hiring enough production people to chase around University of Chicago kids around the clock, was Nebula. An independent streaming service built by creators like myself to help fund and platform projects like Scav, they require bigger budgets or take on more creative risks than we'd be willing to accept on this platform. Scav is a Nebula original, meaning it only exists on Nebula, but even if you want to watch Wendover or jet-like the game earlier or without ads or sponsorships, Nebula offers that too. And if you're looking to branch out, the Nebula library is only getting larger by the day. Another series I'd recommend is Joe Scott's oldest and newest places on Earth. The show blends travel and science together in a really creative way, as Joe Scott is not just talking about some of the most unique geologic places in the world, but he's actually visiting them. Talking with experts, navigating his way to remote corners of the world, and exploring the concept and meaning of time as he goes. It's a really cool and novel show, so if you'd like to support creators like myself, and Joe Scott expanding our boundaries while gaining access to a trove of ad-free and original work, give Nebula a go. Follow the link in the description below and get 50% off your annual subscription through the end of the year. Or, if you've neglected your holiday shopping to this point, consider a gift card, where you can give someone else a Nebula subscription for a month, a year, or even a lifetime.