California, by just about any metric, is a powerhouse. But it's also a state with an inherent and perhaps fatal flaw. Just look at the state's longest waterway and it's two terminal reservoirs. These two fairly modest human-made lakes mark the end of the state's most important and most complicated water system and signal the major disconnect that defines California, that most of its people live where the water isn't. Of California's 58 counties, just these four alone, home to Los Angeles and San Diego, contain about 19 million Californians, half the people in just 10% of the area. This relatively young mega-region caught up to the historically dominant San Francisco over the past century. Rail connections linked the area to the rest of the nation, projects to establish the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles connected it to global trade, fissures in the ground brought oil bubbling to the surface, World War II, brought about a regional airspace boom, but a base reality underlies it all. Southern California boomed because it was simply an unbeatable place to live. Whether it was boosters on the LA Times editorial board, postcard artists, railroads looking to sell property and upwritership, Midwesterners convincing family to follow them or Sanatoriums selling their services to sick urbanites spread across the states. Southern California has always sold the fact that it has plenty of sunshine, pleasant temperatures, and a generally hospitable climate for living and growing. It's an image that has been maintained in popular culture, it's an idea that locals swear by today, and it's a view that's hard to argue against. By daily mean temperature, Los Angeles's coldest month only differs from its hottest by 16 degrees Fahrenheit or nine degrees Celsius. It's as if the area doesn't have seasons, and with the ocean nearby helping to regulate, it's just never too terribly hot and never quite cold. And it's always sunny as the city sites and sells the number 263 as the average count of sunny days a year. It's just about a perfect place to live, but boostersism has a way of turning a luring characteristics into cartoonish over simplifications. What doesn't come up in talks as to how many sunny days there are is the downside linked to this lack of cloud cover, a lack of water. By amulet precipitation, neither San Diego nor Los Angeles are considered deserts, but as semi-airid Mediterranean climates, they're not far off either. San Diego proper receives just about 10 inches of rain a year while Los Angeles is near to about 12 to 15. New York City for comparison receives about 42 to 49 inches of precipitation in a year and London, 23 to 25. With the Southern Californian cities both in the shadow of nearby mountains, available waters aided by some 30 inches of annual precipitation in the Kuyamaka and Laguna mountains and 33 to 50 inches in the San Gabriel mountains. Much of this water though is absorbed into park soil or is flush through first steep and rocky terrain, then a dizzying and dirty array of concrete structures that whisk increasingly tainted water to the Pacific in the name of flood protection. All this leaves Southern California's urban and suburban population high and dry when it comes to access to local water. But both had timing on their side as both were coming of age at the height of America's belief that it could simply engineer solutions to the problems nature presented. Today, the San Diego and Los Angeles metro areas rely on three major water infrastructure networks, two of which they share and all of which pull water through the hybrid, partly natural, partly engineered water procurement systems that each represented the furthest reach of American ingenuity of the time. The oldest of such systems serves solely LA and is called the Los Angeles Aqueduct. It's gravity fed more than a century old and still central to LA's water mix. It was a development that was shady from the start, involving quiet, misleading negotiation tactics as well as a misrepresented and overstated need for further water resources spearheaded by the city's chief engineer. Once running, it was responsible for one of California's largest lakes, Owens drying up entirely, leading the valley's locals to attempt to sabotage the project, drying out their farmland and ruining their way of life. At 230 miles or 370 kilometers long, with more than 160 tunnels and exact grading throughout to maintain a gravity fed flow, it was considered as complex a project as the Panama Canal. It long-goed right out much of the Owens Valley, but it still remains a central story in forming the divide and distress between urban and rural California, and it still keeps moving water, though it's now far from the most impressive project quenching Southern California. Newer and more complex is this system, the Colorado River Aqueduct. Designed by a collection of growing municipalities that came together to form the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California in the late 1920s, and constructed as a great depression era public works project in the 30s, the Colorado River Aqueduct begins at the state's border, pulling water from Lake Havasu. But what makes Lake Havasu a good spot to dam the Colorado River for the ninth time is also what makes it hard to get water out of. The fact that the area is surrounded by steep canyon terrain. So engineers devised this, the Witsick intake pumping plants, which through nine separate pumps, pushes the incipient aqueduct uphill to the Genewash reservoir about a mile away. But it's just the beginning. This human river needs to cross a lot more mountainous desert landscape. From here, another set of pumps, another lift. This one about 300 feet or 90 meters to another reservoir. The pattern continues. Another pump here to clear the iron mountains and another two here and here to clear the eagle mountains before it reaches its high point. From above, the aqueduct looks more or less like a river, but the side profile tells a different story. It's a river running uphill before finally reaching a high point and flowing down into the thirsty metropolitan areas of LA and San Diego. Capable of hydrating a medium-sized city by itself, the river running uphill was recognized in 1952 as one of the seven engineering marvels of the US, alongside the Panama Canal, Hoover Dam, and Empire State Building. Then there's the most recent project, the 1960s state water project. An eight hour or 500 mile, 800 kilometer drive up I-5 from LA, sits Lake Oravil. It's the reservoir where low water marks make the news in periods of mega drought like 2021 and spillway failure makes the news in especially wet years like 2017. Its job is to regulate the flow of the Sacramento River by providing supplemental high-Ciara snow melt, effectively taming and mechanizing the wild waterway. After navigating the natural path of the Sacramento, water then makes its way into the Clifton Court for Bay before flowing down to another pump station that pushes water into the California aqueduct. Here, the water that started as Ciara Snow begins a 444 mile journey replete with forks, additional pumping stations, and reservoirs that disperse the water to farmers, smaller urban areas, and eventually to Southern California. Transporting water from the northern to southern half of one of the biggest states, the aqueduct alone is the longest single waterway in California. Through these massive engineering projects, Southern California, with the expertise and funding from local, state, and federal government bodies, has effectively engineered away the region's biggest problem. They may not look natural, lined with concrete, flowing through tunnels, pushed upward through pipes, but Southern California today has ample waterways. They're reliable and relied upon. LA receives about 88% of its water from three aqueducts, while San Diego counts on the Colorado River and the California aqueduct for about 80% of its water. And strictly from a technical perspective, these systems have the sheer capacity to meet present demand and even keep pace with population growth. And yet, Southern California, and all of California really, is in a perpetual water crunch. The problem doesn't stem from the plumbing, but rather the accounting. In the American West, where it generally doesn't rain very often or very much, farmers, towns, and super cities rely on pulling water from snow melt that is trickled into rivers and creeks. The miners, homesteaders, ranchers, and territorial judicial systems realized quickly that for Western expansion to work, they mean some rules on how exactly to share a public resource that's hard to come by and geographically constrained to channels spread half-hazardly across the landscape. Ultimately, they settled on a first-come, first-serve system called prior appropriation. It works like this. Let's say someone, or a collection of someone's, claimed water rights from this river and built a ditch to cut that water from the waterway way back in 1901 and ever since counted on that water to grow their crops. Should no one have an earlier claim, their rights are the most senior. Of course, they don't need all the rivers water, so let's say three years later, a group of farmers come together just upriver to build a ditch that siphons off some water here. Well, they can do this upriver of the senior rights holder so long as their diversion doesn't impact the more senior diversion downriver. This, in theory, goes on and on up and down the river until every last drop is accounted for. But critical in this system is who gets cut off first should the river have a down year. In this scenario, the most recent claim or the most junior water rights get cut off first. And if it got to this extreme of a situation, if there was only enough water for one of these two claims, the one made in 1901 would predate the one made in 1904 and this group's ditch would receive its water. Now, in reality, both these systems, the Imperial Irrigation District and the Palo Verde Irrigation District are some of the most senior rights holders on the entire Colorado River, so all the users upriver from them, and there are a ton, have to make sure water gets to them or they make a deal to make up for the cuts. The existence of this system is important for California because it first dictates that seniority is the rule of the land and seconds that to maintain these systems, the state needs a ballpark understanding of how much water nature produces and how much water is going to run down a river each year. This introduces two problems. For the big urban areas, seniority is always going to be an issue because cities naturally sprout up later than homesteads, branches, and farms. Another issue, nature is messy. Water is difficult to measure accurately with soil absorption rates, groundwater pooling, and evaporation. The only thing that seems certain these days is that the state's getting a little bit less and less each year. To quantify the exact gap between water rights or what's allocated out by the state against how much water the state naturally produces a year, a study in 2014 at UC Davis requiring archival research digging through all the old rights found that the state allocates about 370 million acre feet a year, but a good precipitation year only produces about 70 million acre feet. California has allocated rights to an incredible five times more water than it can actually produce, creating a major structural deficit. And because of the system of prior appropriations, whoever has more junior water rights is going to be the first to lose out. Given that these can often be urban municipalities that are growing and just trying to keep up with demand, that means the places with the people are more likely to lose out. Now, in practice cities have yet to get cut. Even in the worst of droughts, California has yet to actually run out of water, but the margins are getting finer. And the closer the call, the more scrutiny the other side of California gets. California is far more than two major coastal urban areas. It's also an agrarian heartland. Almost all leafy greens produced in the US in the winter months come from the Imperial Valley, but the state's central valley, through which the California aqueduct runs, produces 99% of the US's almonds and 40% of the nation's fruits and nuts across just one percent of the nation's total agricultural land. Just as Southern California is the perfect place to live, the central valley is the perfect place to grow high value crops. 300 sunny days a year, the highest quality soil and temperatures that vary wildly from daytime in night, which increases sugar content in fruit, but again, a familiar limitation, water. Now, it's easy to romanticize the plight of the farmer here. They got to the water first, took the risk, built their life, livelihood, and family around the water, and are now potentially going to get bullied out of it by a bunch of soulless cities. But it looks a little different on the ground. By and large, this is big industrial agriculture. The most notable central valley brands make this clear, palm pomegranates, wonderful almonds and pistachios, halo clementines, all recognizable brands on their own right for the average American consumer. But all are actually the same company, the wonderful company, which also owns Fiji water, Justin Wines, Teleflora, and wonderful citrus. This is far from mom and pop farming. And while the controlling resonant family are major movers in the philanthropy space, questions linger around the authenticity of their efforts, as well as the mean through which they've been able to accumulate so much water for their own commercial use to begin with. The wonderful company, its operations and ensuing questions, centers here in Kern County. It's in Shafter where they have run much of their distribution, and it's over here where some of their film throttic efforts have taken stage. In the unincorporated community of Lost Hills, where half of the 95% Hispanic population draws its paychecks from the wonderful company, some see generosity while others see the remnants of the company town labor structure that's gone by the wayside in much of the rest of the country. Scanning the city explains why. Moving north from the almond village apartments built on land donated by the wonderful company, there's the wonderful preschool neighboring the wonderful college prepochadiny. North of that, there's the wonderful bridge that crosses the highway and connects the town to the wonderful park and the wonderful soccer field adorned with a wonderful logo. Whether altruistic or labor controlling, what's of more importance to the larger water picture is what lies beneath Kern County. What makes the wonderful empire possible is in part the Kern County water bank, a partially natural underground structure that holds about 1.5 million acre feet or 500 billion gallons of water. That's the amount of water that the Colorado aqueduct could pump in a year at maximum capacity or the amount of water promised to the entire country of Mexico annually from the Colorado River. Of all that storage, the residents own 57% of it. This, along with more senior water rights, along the state's surface water, gives wonderful access to more water than what every house in Los Angeles uses in a year combined. And the process through which they gained ownership of so much of the state's water is at best, a bit opaque. The residents were able to acquire this share of the water bank through the 1994 Monterey amendments. The result of quite negotiations between the state's department of water resources and a collection of private entities along the state water project whose junior water rights were increasingly threatened by persistent drought. The two parties struck a deal, ownership over the yet to be completed water bank transferred from the state to the private entities and exchanged for the retirement of the junior water rights that strained the state project. The deal also struck out the project's urban preference rule that said water would be delivered first to urban municipalities in times of drought. The trade off, the quiet nature of the deal, and the removal of urban preference has led some to label the transfer as an underhanded rip off to California residents for the sake of a single institution. While the optics are bad, others say it was a fairer deal given the context. What's less subjective is that the bank helped the resident agricultural empire expand to what it is today, and it allows them the flexibility and confidence to plant high revenue cash crops that happened to be extremely water intensive without consideration of urban California needs at all. And it's taken what was a state-owned water bank that stores a commodity that exists in the public trust and turned it into a profit generator for a billionaire family when it sells that water to urban areas in need. The residents alone aren't the cause for California's constant water stream, but they're the best example as to how the system inadvertently benefits well-resourced agribusinesses. They're able to lobby and sway policy makers, invest heavily in projects like the current water bank that are certain to strengthen their water holdings in the long game and use their scale to eat up a bigger and bigger portion of the water supply. They're able to turn California's inherent positive attributes, its first-class soils and prime temperatures, to grow crops that happen to be some of the most water intensive without any consideration as to who or how many could make use of that same resource. But the problem transcends billionaire almond farmers entirely. Statewide, agriculture accounts for 80% of all water use no matter how wealthy the farmer. And yet, agriculture only accounts for 2.5% of the state's economy. Here, heritage is running right into efficiency. And yet, the problem is more broad than just agriculture against urban, too. Ultimately, it's a combination of sloppy math, a systemic belief that all water can and ought to get put to work, and they use it or lose it mentality that insures water is always a top issue in California. It may be less pronounced in the less and less common periods of comparative abundance, but should a multi-decade wet period persist, the state, the cities, and the farmers will identify it eventually as the new norm, putting the water to use as if it's going to be like that every year. And in the far more likely future reality, as the fires get worse, the summers dryer, the wet period shorter, the snowpack more scant, into state that's rife for a reckoning. Does the water serve best the people or the plants? Does this new future rely on new rules or the rules that got the state to this position in the first place? What is very much figured out, on the other hand, is what you should watch next, or at least put on your list. And that's day pass, hosted by Jason from Notchis Pikes. Day pass is a nebula original, meaning it exists only on the streaming service that myself and a host of other creators put together called nebula. Day pass being a nebula original also means that it rocks. It's a show that takes what Jason loves and knows best, public transit and travel, and unleashes him to explore cities through the lens of public transit. It's a concept that a lot of people put a lot of thought into. It's a project backed by a bigger budget than what's usually possible on YouTube, and it's a project that Jason and the whole nebula team is really excited about. If you're a fan of anything we make over here, a wind-over, then the crossover appeal is really natural here. But rather than us leaning on maps and explanations from above to talk about transit, Jason's really out there experiencing and critiquing it all from the ground. It's travel meets transit. Day pass is the new fancy edition, but there is just so much good stuff on Nebula right now. If you like content produced by our team, well, we have a lot up there right now from a ball-sharvey thing, a comedy debate premise recorded live in New York to scaff. A docu-series tracing the drama and outrageous unfoldings of the country's largest annual scavenger hunt at the University of Chicago. Beyond us, Joseph from Real Life lore is producing great stuff with his Mad King series, while Joe Scott's oldest and newest places on Earth serves as an awfully compelling, full-length documentary that blends a lot of cool geology with some pretty extreme travel to go see it all. I can keep going, but just trust that every month it goes by, the Nebula catalog gets a bit deeper, making being a subscriber only a bit better. But we need you all to keep the cycle going. We have a deal running right now that, when you use our link, nebula.tv slash-wind-over, you'll get a whole 50% off a Nebula subscription, which brings the cost down to just $30 for the entire year. As streaming seems to only get more expensive, this is a screaming deal. So give us the shots, and thank you for supporting this channel and all the other creators building out Nebula with awesome content.