For one hypothetical steamboat springs Colorado residents, today is a very exciting day. After a decade of steady career advancement in saving, after years of driving a used car required after college, and after months of research, this Northern Colorado is set to buy their first new car. A car that's upscale, capable in the mountains, and has the capacity to carry friends to a hiking trailhead or possibly haul a budding family in the coming years. They've settled on an Audi Q3, but now comes the hard part, or more specifically, the overly complicated, often misleading, always expensive part, actually buying the car from a dealership. First, there's the matter of finding an authorized dealership. Colorado as a state only has seven Audi dealerships, and the western side dotted with wealthy mountain towns and anchored by population center of over 150,000 is served by just one, Audi Glenwood Springs. It's the closest option, and it happens to have a couple of Q3s on the lot, according to its website, so our buyer opts for here. They've secured a ride down to the dealership more than two hours away. They've read up on how to navigate their interactions with the sales team and financing manager, and they've drawn up the number they're willing to pay. But there's also what they haven't considered. There's the fact that not only are they opting to likely buy from this dealership, but that they're also entering into a de facto long-term customer relationship with them. They're likely to get their car service tier for the next 10 years, that the salesperson is likely to send them a holiday card and ask about future upgrades or more purchases for the family. The buyer's car business for the life of the car is likely going to be tethered to this dealership, and our buyer doesn't actually even know who owns the dealership. Audi Glenwood Springs, for its part, really looks like it'd be owned by Audi as its interior, exterior, even its website all communicate the same upscale minimalism of the car company. But the dealership isn't owned by Audi because in Colorado and in the other 49 US states, that much is illegal. Rather, the dealership is owned and operated by Sonic Automotive, the same company that owns the Land Rover and Volkswagen dealerships in town. Sonic isn't local though. It's a growing car dealership operator headquartered in North Carolina that has become a Fortune 500 company without ever actually manufacturing a single vehicle. This much would be news to our buyer. As of some antiquated laws, nearly every new car purchase in the US is made through a franchise middlemen like Sonic Automotive. In a country where car ownership is so universal, this puts every car buyer in a seriously compromised position without them really knowing it. Globally, this is fairly unique. While car sales in North America go almost exclusively through dealerships, in China, if a buyer wants to buy a BYD, they just go to BYD's website. In Japan, while dealerships do exist, car companies are allowed to sell directly to consumers. In the UK, in Germany, and much of the EU, you can work with car manufacturers to get the exact color, trim, and specifications you're looking for rather than having your choice limited to what's left on the lot of a franchise seller. In the rest of the world, you have the choice of going through a dealership or the manufacturer. In the US, you don't. Now, at one point, from the perspective of car buyers and small business owners, there was some good logic for dealerships to be protected under state law. At the beginning of the automotive age, figuring out how to mass-brews automotive's bought the same time selling the public on their necessity was a major hurdle. Factory production, no matter how efficient, doesn't matter if people wouldn't buy the cars. Ford Motors turned to the franchise dealership model to keep sales humming. This allowed the company to stay focused on its core competency, manufacturing, while allowing entrepreneurial local business people who knew the wants and needs of their towns best to keep the product turning over. Through the early 1900s, this model worked. Americans adopted the automobile as a necessity, small local dealerships nationwide thrived, and to choice Big Three became the center of the automotive manufacturing world. But as the Big Three crystallized an effective oligopoly over domestic car manufacturing, they began to leverage their largest against the local mom-and-pop dealerships. If you were to walk into a Ford dealership in the 1920s, for example, you'd find a copy of Henry Ford's anti-Semitic propaganda, the Dearborn Independent, somewhere in the lobby, not because the dealership's owner was an anti-Semite, but because Ford mandated it. In times of financial difficulty, Ford would keep factory production high and flood dealerships with cars they couldn't hope to sell. And should a dealership get sideways with the manufacturer, the car company would either freeze them out, open up a direct competitor, or license a rival to begin selling their vehicles across town. But by mid-century, dealerships and their friends and elected positions had conceived of a way to get back. Laws that mandated and protected their existence. Even today, car dealerships tend to be heavily ingrained in their communities. In Glenwood Springs, for example, the Ford dealership sponsors High School Golf Tournaments and the Toyota dealership sponsors the football games. At mid-century, this influence and visibility of the local dealership was at an absolute peak. The interstate system, the drive-through and drive-in, the post-war consumer boom, all made for record auto production and sales in the 1950s, and at the center of it was the town's local car dealerships. Dealships were pillars of the community, their owners were local celebrities, and the sales hacks they brought in was critical for state and local governments. They had sway, and as the big three manufacturers toyed with them, they responded by using their local importance to lobby for some protections. Soon, all 50 states had some form of legal bans on manufacturers selling their own cars in states with already established franchise dealerships. Now Ford couldn't simply open up their own showroom down the block to put a company that sold Ford's for decades at a business. In each state, the exact role is very, certain states have added further protections. In Colorado, for years, this law was pretty cut and dry. No manufacturer shall own, operate or control any motor vehicle dealer or use motor vehicle dealer in Colorado. And while these mid-century laws remain, the car landscape has flipped on its head. The arrival of foreign-made cars has undercut the big three's oligopoly, while consolidation is eating up the dealerships. Along with Sonic, all of these car dealerships are force in 500 companies too, meaning there are more massive car dealership companies than car manufacturing companies. Beated by legal protections from a buy-gone era, and dealing with less and less competition, just means more leverage for the middleman dealership, and they use it. While our buyers prepared, once they've stepped on a lot of Audi Glenwood Springs, they're now navigating a pretty hostile environment from the perspective of the customer's wallet. First, it's confusing. Cars are inherently complicated, so our buyer is at a knowledge disadvantage. Next, our buyer has to navigate a host of separate motives, because while the manufacturer just wants the sale near MSRP, the dealerships in the business of a resale, and for that to be profitable, they need to do some upselling, upgrading, or favorable financing. But even before these conversations begin with the salesperson, our buyer is already losing just on baseline MSRP. They've decided going in that they want to get this Q3 at sticker price. Well, at $48,170, that's already more than $4,400 more than the reported invoice cost, or with the manufacturer sold it to the dealership for. This number includes a destination fee that the seller isn't likely to handle over, so while you can't custom order this car from the manufacturer to ensure you have the exact color or trim you want, you are still paying for the shipping and handling of a car you didn't really get to choose. Our buyer is happy with white though, and willing to stomach MSRP. Now there's the dealer handling fees for another $500, which, in the business, is usually just understood as payment for all the paperwork that the customer is expected to just accept, as part of purchase. But at least according to Mountain Sales Toyota, a dealership also owned by Sonic, but one that proudly waves all dealer to fees, these are nothing more than additional profit generators for the dealership. After a positive test drive, our buyer has agreed with the salesperson that they're willing to pay sticker price so long as the dealership fee is waived. They feel pretty good about themselves, but so too does the dealership. To this point of the transaction, the dealership has come out positive on what they call the front end gross, turning a profit over what they paid for the car from the manufacturer. When sales are good, a dealership hopes to turn 3-10% profit on front end gross, but in bad times they're okay with selling in the red here. And that's because of the back end earnings. Now our buyer is pretty content with themselves as they move from the desk of the salesperson to the desk of the finance and insurance manager. This person, given their title, seems like a paperwork person, and that much is intentional, but they are absolutely another salesperson. Here's a job listing for an F&I manager for Sonic Automotive at Audi Central Houston. It requires a lot of experience, it provides good benefits, and it's a job that comes with training and even program schools. It's a job that nets from $100 to $500,000, and it's the core of the dealership's business because it's a major profit source. As the listing describes, the job is to sell, to upsell, to add on, to squeeze every last dollar out of a deal that's on the finish line. They'll do this through financing, working the buyer to as high of an interest rate as they can stomach. They'll push the add-ons like extended warranties, gap insurance, winterization, paint wheel and glass insurance, all our services that could be helpful, but all are also massively over priced within this office. With the buyer disarmed, with their most experienced, highest compensated salesperson on the job, it's through back-end gross where car dealerships make their real money. In 2025, Sonic Automotive announced that their F&I earnings hit record numbers, netting gross profits over $2500 per unit sold. That's an incredible amount of profit generated by a part of the car buying interaction that's supposed to feel like just tying up loose ends and getting you out the door. Our buyer is now finally out of the door, but with a car that costs $44,000 from Audi to the dealership, but closer to $56,000 before taxes for our buyer, a 25% markup. And should they choose to service the vehicle through the dealership for the next 10 years, they'll come to expect a similar strategy on upselling services every single time they bring in the vehicle. Now, they'd be wrong to identify dealerships as strictly a shady, parasitic institution. They provide a real and valuable service to manufacturers in pushing their vehicles, they provide a service to buyers through location convenience and actually getting people in these cars and educating them on the vehicle. Their lack of competition and strong legal protections have given them far too much leeway, though. It's hard to attack this imbalance of power head on as the National Automotive Dealers Association is a well-established lobby with deep pockets and states themselves benefit from the jobs and sales taxes that come with dealerships. Consumers are unmotivated to rally opposition to this system because it's not when they deal with on the day-to-day. So it's largely up to the manufacturers to try to check this power. In 2021, a frustrated Ford CEO, Jim Farley, threatened to cut vehicle allocation to certain dealerships because the company had grown so frustrated over dealership markups. But then, there's what Tesla did. Today, Tesla has more than 320 showrooms, service centers, and mall pop-ups spread across the US, all of which staffed by Tesla employees and owned by Tesla. This makes the company far and away the largest automotive manufacturer in the states to run a direct consumer sales model. But they've had to fight tooth and nail to establish this network, and still, in many US states, it's illegal to buy a Tesla from Tesla within state borders. Perhaps as bold as the concept of fully automated driving, was Tesla's push to sell its cars directly to consumers in the 2010s. Because the product was so unique in the automotive space, because the company is tasked with more education about their product, and because EVs just don't fit the standard car dealership model very cleanly, given how different they are from any other product, and how dissimilar their maintenance requirements can be, Tesla has always viewed dealerships as a hurdle to their success. So, they challenged franchise dealership laws at the state level. In many states, Tesla could argue that it was not actually competing against any franchise locations because Tesla had never actually established Tesla franchises at any point to begin with. In the 2010s, Tesla faced little opposition as it spread across California, but in other states, the battle took longer. In Colorado, for instance, the law broadly banged manufacturers from selling cars, but if the manufacturer had no franchises already running, then it could run direct consumer sales, so long as it only ran one location. That meant this single spot held down all the states Tesla sales for a decade. In Texas, Tesla could open showrooms, but not actually make sales within the state. So someone could come into the showroom, learn all about the EV, then figure out an out-of-state purchase option. In Connecticut, Tesla could lease but not sell. In New Mexico, Tesla couldn't sell, but in both states, Tesla found loopholes by working with Native American reservations. After nearly two decades of fighting and court and lobbying battles going both directions, the map looked like this. Tesla can sell direct consumer in all these states, but not in these. But the growing popularity of EVs and the arrival of companies like Rivian and Soon Scout are pushing the boundaries of these franchise laws even further. Colorado now has six separate Tesla dealerships, because under increasing pressure from the anticipated arrival of Rivian, the state revised adding this clause that, so long as the company is producing EVs and not competing with any of its own franchise dealerships, it's clear to sell direct consumer from as many locations as it pleases. But dealerships aren't going quietly into the night. Even in Colorado, where franchise laws are seemingly getting undercut one way or another every few years, Sonic Automotive in 2026 sued the state after his issuance of a dealership license over to Scout Motors in 2025. Sonic is arguing that Scout doesn't plan to produce strictly EVs, but also plug-in hybrids as their vehicles have the option for a small gas-powered generator to extend range in a pinch. The company also argues that Scout's backing by Volkswagen means the company is in fact competing with an already established dealership network within the state. While it remains to be seen where this court case goes, it makes it abundantly clear that franchise dealers aim to continue to fight. A nurseshub is perhaps the industry's best line of defense, though. While these laws were designed to protect small business and create competition, the competition, from the perspective of the consumer, is the worst sort of competition, where the choices pair down to a gut feel on which option is going to rip you off the least, or which you have the most bargaining leverage over. It's bad for both the consumer and the manufacturer when poll data shows that more than 70% of respondents don't trust dealers to be honest about pricing, and more than 80% suspect hidden fees and don't trust the transparency of dealerships across the board. Protectionism has created an environment that promotes maximally squeezing the consumer and presents as the least bad option. This is so backwards to the economic ideals of the US, and its freedom of choice, pro-competition, pro-consumer stances, that the Federal Trade Commission has gone so far as to state its stance on the matter, inside with the adoption of direct consumer sales. For now, the third-party dealership is the status quote. It's something that a consumer begrudgingly accepts is something they hope to deal with once every few years. But as EVs continue to grow in popularity, and as awareness of their alternative model of sales and servicing spread, a reckoning over outdated state protections of third-party dealerships becomes more and more probable as the legacy manufacturers begin to lose out to a cheaper, more transparent, and more approachable alternative. Of course, it's easy to forget this much in a car-brain culture like that of US, but there is another alternative that's often far more efficient, far cheaper, and far more interesting. And that's public transportation. And look no further than Jason from Notches bikes nebula series day pass for proof that places where you don't need to own a car actually exist. Exploring some of the most unique and robust transit systems the world has to offer through the experiences of a public transit superfan and super critic in Jason shows an alternative to automotive obsession, while also just providing a really fun watch, blending, traveling, infrastructure. Of course, I'm bringing up this nebula original, less to make a larger point in this video and more to bring attention to this video sponsor, nebula, but the thematic connection of this video and day pass really expresses the value proposition of nebula. Quite simply, if you like the content that we make on this channel, or if you like jet lag the game, it's more than likely you're going to really enjoy this limited series. Nebula, through originals like this one, offers creators like us a chance to make things with bigger scopes, bigger budgets, more ambitious ideas with less risk aversion than we do without it. The proposition to you is that for what we believe to be an extremely reasonable rate, we provide you with early ad free content or entirely unique content that's the best, most creative stuff we can put together. That means access to stuff like Wendover's first foray into the comedy world with abolish everything. It means early access to Tom Scots' return to video making with his awesome series England. It means access to Downing Express's travel series, Arctic to Africa. And it means access to more and more as the continued support from fans only helps us keep creating a deeper and deeper catalog. If you haven't given nebula shot yet, I really recommend you do. It helps us a ton and we're really confident in the product. Right now, through the end of the month, you can get a nebula annual subscription, normally $60, for 50% off. That's just $30, which means that's just $2.50 a month, which means that's less than a bus fare or a coffee. Give nebula shot and go get this deal by going to nebula.tv slash windover or by following the link in the description below.