Across the past few decades, tourism in Iceland has blown up. This year, that phenomenon nearly took on a new meaning with a volcanic eruption not far from the famed Blue Lagoon. While far from a novelty in the land of Fire and Ice, the lava spewing fissures opening across the landscape required an evacuation of the area. The nation's tourism board was quick to communicate that the incident would have no implication to the capital city or the international airport. Difficulties in the tourism economy were felt elsewhere in the Northern Atlantic, as for years, humpback whales just off the coast of Ireland paid the bills for quark whale watchers. But recently the whales have been harder and harder to spot, and thus business has been harder, culminating in the company closing its doors this year. Following food, the whales have simply gone elsewhere, making it another clear sign to activists that the government isn't doing nearly enough to protect its waters from overfishing. An island away, 2025, has seen much made about how to treat the English Channel. British PM Kierstarmer, author or letter to France's president, urging the nation to help stop small boats leaving the French coast headed to the United Kingdom from taking off. The move was made to attempt to slow the arrival of refugees and asylum seekers into the UK, as nearly 40,000 had already arrived in 2025 alone, pushing it into a major political issue for the new labor government. In the notoriously environmentally conscious Norway, 2025 saw Parliament's past legislation that opens previously protected rivers to potential damning for the purposes of hydropower. That move is controversial, as on the one hand, it opens the door for increased low carbon power production, but on the other, critics are quick to point out that damning and effectively destroying wild rivers hardly resembles anything green or renewable to begin with. If one were to closely monitor the movement of Sweden's Prime Minister, Ulf Christerson, they'd simply need a bit of creativity and the Strava app. Using the Fitness Mapping app, an investigation by a Swedish newspaper this year was able to figure out the PM's preferred jocke-grouse and travel spots by looking at the activities of the security guards. It was an obvious security blunder and another reminder as to how the most innocent seeming social media sharing can create major security breaches. In both Finland and Denmark, policymakers moved to ban phones from the classroom this year, and countries that annually rank towards the top in public education and overall happiness, perhaps it's a surprise that it's taken this long to ban phones from the classroom. Signing their only education outcomes but also self-esteem issues and the increased digitization of daily life both bans come at the national level. Estonia however has opted to go the opposite direction. In Estonian schools, cell phones are being embraced as tools. With the launch of the AI-Leap 2025 initiative, Estonia is leaning into artificial intelligence within its school systems as a tool to further enhance outcomes. As a nation that has quietly climbed up education rankings, embracing AI in schools may seem bold to the outside world but a logical progression within the country. Another Baltic state has launched a rather unique education program but for a far different purpose. Not via, the country's intelligence and security service published a guide for its general populace to help better identify potential Russian spies. People lingering near important sites, unkempt tourists and talkative overly nosy strangers were some stereotypes that the service noted for Latvians to avoid and report. Russian meddling also informed public education efforts in Lithuania. In a joint effort between the military and the nation's education department, the country has set a goal of educating some 22,000 Lithuanians on drone skills, from building them to flying up with its eastern neighbor which quickly matched Ukraine in its drone manufacturing and warfare capabilities. The program is aiming to educate kids beginning as young as 8 years old with proper introductory classes and open several drone training centers in the coming years. Russia has been sending shockwaves across much of the rest of the world for years now and 2025 was no different. With an 8.8 magnitude earthquake just off its eastern coasts triggering tidal wave alerts across the Pacific in July, even Russian nature has been caused for international headaches. For its part though, the earthquake also may have played a role in triggering a dramatic volcanic eruption in the country's far east. Near no major population centers, the Crescent Inakov eruption is not aware of the in terms of damage done, but for its rarity as this volcano hasn't erupted in some 600 years. In 2025, political leadership in Belarus released 52 political prisoners in a move that would seem to counter trends within the increasingly authoritarian state. The move was a little more than an effort to ease international sanctions placed on the Lukashenko regime. Released to Lithuania, 52 only represents the smallest fraction of the thousand-plus political prisoners that have been arrested within the country over the last five years, a point that was not lost on those fortunate enough to be freed. A major potentially divisive scandal has hit a country that really doesn't need one in Ukraine. In the middle of a war, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has found his political machine caught up in the middle of corruption allegations led by the country's anti-corruption bodies that are claiming high-ranking officials have been receiving illegal kickbacks from the state-owned nuclear energy company. It is news that as undercut government credibility and as Kostyng Zelensky important aid were fleeing or resigning as investigations continue. Influenced by both Russia and the West, Moldova made its current stance well-known in this year's parliamentary elections. A sweeping victory for the pro-West, pro-EU action and solidarity party stands as a strong rebuke to Russian efforts to sway the former Soviet state in their direction. Russia has been accused of widespread interference, going as far as trying to buy off Orthodox priest with payments and lavish vacations to garner their support. As a shankin area country, Poland in recent history has maintained an open border between it and Germany. That was until this year. Following right-wing protests and claims over irregular immigration into Poland from migrants passing through Germany, Poland has initiated temporary measures to increase policing of its border crossings, a move that's technically allowed within the EU agreements, but one that's testing the shankin area. It's normal in the Krokenoshe Mountains of the Northwest Czech Republic for hikers to be wandering the local forests. It's not normal for those hikers to stumble across a treasure trove of 598 gold coins, 10 gold bracelets, and various centri-old valuables worth about $650,000. The discovery made by some hikers this April was quickly handed over to the local university where researchers are working to understand the backstory of how these goods ended up here about 80 to 100 years ago. On the other side of the Morava River, Slovakia also grappled with history when it came to how exactly to deal with Kanye West. Slated to perform at a summer hip-hop festival, a grassroots movement to cancel the gig gained momentum not long after Kanye released a song titled After the Most Notorious Not Se greeting in early May. Thousand-signing petition and the festival eventually canceled the performance. In Hungary, 2025 marked the 30th anniversary of Budapest's Pride Parade. In the face of PM Victor Orbán's ban on pride, the event was the city's largest as an estimated 100,000 marchers made their way through its streets. The event marked a celebration of the nation's LGBTQ population and a defiant stand against the country's right-wing government. All of Europe turned its attention to Romania this May as the nation reported national election results. Ultimately, it offered a sigh of relief from European perspectives as a centrist mayor beat out a former soccer ultra and hard-right ultra nationalist. For the EU and NATO member Romania, it was a nerve-frying election cycle that saw the ultimate result momentarily contested and earlier in the process, another far-right candidate actually removed from the ballot on account of Russian interference in their support. Russian espionage made the news in Bulgaria, too. In London this March, six Bulgarians went to trial over espionage charges, claiming that these agents working for Moscow were seeking to discover the phone numbers of Ukrainian soldiers training on specific air defense technology. Among other things, the dramatic trial over a 14-year-sense has uncovered lies, deception, and an unrealized love triangle between the Bulgarian spies that is sure to inspire at least a limited series. In Greece, life ground to a halt this October when workers went on strike from all sectors of the economy, education to transportation. The strike was in protest of another pro-business law set to pass at the national level, which allowed for 13-hour workdays. Countring European labor trends, the 13-hour workday did indeed pass and stands alongside legislation last year that allowed for an elective six-day workweek in the private sector that made Greece one of the least attractive labor markets within the EU. The labor market in North Macedonia is struggling for the under-25 demographic, with many of the country's young people leaving for better economic conditions in neighboring countries. It was this group that was hit particularly hard when the roof of an unlicensed nightclub caught on fire and killed 59 people, the majority of them young, while injuring another 155, bringing close-knit tragedy to lose small European country of two million. The European Union produces an annual report about potential new members, and Albania and Montenegro sit atop its list for entry as early as 2030. Albania's accession talks should conclude by the end of 2027, as the country is recognized for its progress on rooting out corruption. The existing 27-country block weighs in on who can enter next, and other hopefuls Georgia and Serbia both took back steps amid concerns about crackdowns on free speech. In Serbia specifically, hostilities have increased George journalists in a backlash to their reporting on anti-government protests, with some outside agencies putting press freedom there at its lowest level in more than two decades. The political system in Bosnia and Herzegosovina is complex, comprising one federal government with two major separate entities beneath it, the Federation of Bosnia and the Serb Republic, where about one-third of the population is Serbium. The system, set up after the date and accords in the 90s following the Bosnian War, is tenuous because of the competing parties, and this year a separatist leader and ally of the country's recently-austed Serb Republic leader was elected to replace the territory's top position in a snap election. The previous leader was removed after being found guilty of disobeying peace policies, yet his replacement by a close ally keeps separatism at the forefront of the region in advance of another general election set to take place in 2027. The tourist hotspot of Dubrovnik in Croatia already has a trash problem as the city of just 42,000 deals with more than 4.5 million overnight stays by visitors each year. Now, it's getting other countries's garbage as well. This winner, thousands of pounds of plastic drifted onto Dubrovnik's popular beaches. Officials think it's presumably from Albania because of the language on the trash and the way that the ocean flows, and they're planning to use satellite monitoring in the future to divert some of it before it comes ashore. Europe's upcoming 2026 Eurovision competition was already creating plenty of controversy this year, as at least four countries, Ireland, Spain, Slovenia and the Netherlands, have said they would boycott it because the contest's governing body has allowed Israel to participate. Several broadcasters had demanded its exclusion due to its actions in the war in Gaza. The small country inside of Italy, San Marino, is not boycotting however. Although they've sent a contestant 14 times before, San Marino has never won Eurovision, but residents are hopeful that DJ Gabi Pant might be the golden ticket in 2026. The golden passport program that allowed foreigners to pay for citizenship in Malta was deemed illegal by the top EU court. For 750,000 Euros and 12 months spent in Malta, non-residents could pay cash to get the aforementioned golden passport, names so because it also gave them access to live and work in all EU countries. Critics say it opened the door for nefarious actors and corruption into the EU, whereas Malta argued that the fund it created 1.4 billion Euros represented critical investment for the small island country. Another small European country known for luxury added an event this year that strengthens that association. The first ever Grand Prix de la Ott-Giualerie was held in Monaco, which is a jewelry competition that gave out eight awards for exquisite designs in all the expected players, Tiffinian Co, Louis Vuitton, Boucheran, Bulgarie, Chanel, Chopin, Dior, were among the recipients. Unefficial competition between countries spurred the mayor of Rome in Italy to declare that the Tiber River will be swimmable in five years. The declaration was prompted by Paris's recent cleanup of the San for the 2024 Olympics. People regularly swam in the Tiber River until the 60s when it was found to be too polluted for humans. It will cost billions of Euros to clean it, with most of the pollution caused by microplastics. In a sign of increasing tension across Europe, Austria is abandoning its long-term goal of disarmament and doubling its military budget over the next seven years by increasing it to more than 2% of the country's GDP. Austria is not part of NATO, but as the war between Russia and Ukraine drags on and neighboring countries increase their own military spending, the country believes it must respond to growing threats. In the middle of the pack on at least one social issue, Listern's sign became the 22nd country in Europe to legalize same-sex marriage, taking effect January 1st. The four-small country in Europe had previously allowed registered partnerships, but the almost unanimously supported law passed by Parliament now grants all rights of marriage to same-sex couples. Another movement across Europe is the shift to a digital wallet, and in Switzerland, residents narrowly approved plans for electronic ID cards. The digital ID is linked to smartphones. Those wary of it don't want to give over too much private information and worry-bout security breaches, as well as inequity for those who don't have smartphones. Proponents say it will streamline information for users, and in any case, physical IDs are still available. The second cousin to the throne of Luxembourg died at the young age of 22 due to a rare disease caused by mutation in his P.O.L.G. gene. The illness was discovered when Prince Frederick was 14, and he led the remainder of his life raising awareness and research funding for mitochondrial diseases. When addressing the growing threat of Russia, Germany is trying to replenish its military reserves, though it decided this year it will not go as far as mandatory conscription. For now, officials will stick with voluntary conscription in which all men will have to register their readiness and medical ability to serve. Women will also be considered for voluntary service, and if numbers do not reach the levels needed, the government will consider mandatory call-ups again. The U.S.-China War for the Global Chip Industry fought a battle in the Netherlands this year where manufacturer Nexperia is based. The United States put Chinese-owned wing tech, which owns Nexperia, on a trade blacklist citing national security concerns and echoing those concerns. The Dutch government briefly took over Nexperia to keep the semiconductor sector in motion. After China responded by implementing export controls that damaged European supply chains, the Netherlands gave in without any meaningful efforts to alleviate the concerns and Nexperia was given back to China. Lost to limit and prohibit smoking and vaping are spreading around the world, and Belgium made history this year by becoming the first EU country to ban disposable vapes, taking effect on January 1st. The country has ambitious goals of entirely snuffing out new smokers to zero by 2040, and this law was one step towards making that happen. In France, a heist, no, not that heist, left one family business out at least $100,000 when more than 990 pounds of snails, popularly known as escargot, were stolen from their headquarters. In France, each 37 million pounds of snail annually, a figure that skyrocket towards the holidays when the deluxe sea has served, and officials believe the thieves have been scoping out this particular business for theft in advance of the most profitable season. The games of these small states of Europe is a biennial sports competition resembling the Olympics, and in 2025, Andora hosted its 20th edition. Only European countries with fewer than 1 million residents can participate, and more than 1,000 athletes traveled to the tiny country for the summer games. People is anything but small anymore, with a foreign-born population that's tripled since 2019, thanks to lacks citizenship requirements and an accessible residency by investment program. But the golden days of golden visas are slowing with their newest citizenship requirement that most applicants must be in the country for at least 10 years instead of 5, unless they're from an EU or Portuguese-speaking country, in which case it's going up to just 7. Not only does this affect those with Portuguese dreams, but also those in the country's real state and investment sectors that are propped up by the passport program. Another set of foreigners descended upon a hotel in Granada, Spain for the Spanish World Scrabble Championships, but the winner wasn't someone who even speaks Spanish, shocking the 150 other competitors from 20 countries. Nigel Richards, a Malaysian-born New Zealander, took home the top prize thanks to his ability to memorize thousands of words despite not knowing their meaning. For more than 50 years, control over a territory called Western Sahara about the size of Britain, bordering Morocco and Algeria, has been disputed, but the United Nations vote to accept a 2007 autonomy proposal from Morocco means the fight could finally be drawing to a close. When Spain, which controlled the area, withdrew in the 60s, both Morocco and a group called the Policario Front claimed it. The Security Council's acceptance of the proposal means it could move forward developing local legislative, executive, and judicial authority for Western Sahara while ultimately remaining under Moroccan sovereignty. A flotilla of civilian boats delivering humanitarian aid to Warthorne Gaza was hit with a bomb carried by a drone of the coast of Tunisia. The flotilla had made news for carrying activist Greta Thunberg previously, but she was not on it at the time. Tunisia officials, however, denied responsibility and said the fire on the boats broke out itself. And off the coast of Libya, more than a dozen NGO rescue vessels there have suspended cooperation with the country's Coast Guard. The Libyan Agency receives funding from the EU in order to intercept migrant boats headed for Europe, but the NGOs are saying that the Coast Guard is not a legitimate search and rescue organization, but rather a, quote, violent regime enabled by the EU, citing violence during interceptions and inhumane conditions at the camps migrants are brought to. A $1 billion museum claiming to be the world's largest archaeological facility opened outside of Cairo, Egypt after more than two decades in the making. The Grand Egyptian Museum covers 470,000 square meters, or roughly 5 million square feet, and features more than 50,000 items. There is an ongoing civil war in Sudan, and on top of that, officials are waging another battle against cholera. There have been more than 100,000 cases and 2,500 deaths so far, and the difficulties in successful intervention are exacerbated by the lack of infrastructure and basic supplies all left decimated by the ongoing violence. Health groups are trying to contain its spread across borders to try to prevent a wider epidemic in an already struggling region. This area serves on the board of African parks, a wildlife conservation group in Chad. The country briefly cut ties with the organization this year, citing concerns over mismanagement, but the relationship was reinstated shortly after the group gave new assurances and was given oversight over several of Chad's national parks. It's the second set of allegations surrounding African charities against Harry in a year, and more widely demonstrates the complexities and uncertainties of having foreign nonprofits operate critical resources for countries that are in need. Three countries all recently taken over by military junta's have dropped out of the international criminal court. Brachina Faso, Mali and Niger, all located in the Sahel region, said they would monitor and enforce peace internally. Roughly 125 countries are part of the ICC, and this recent trio of withdrawals came with criticisms that the court unfairly targets African countries, calling it, quote, an instrument of neocolonialist repression. This is backed up by the data, as all but one of the court's 33 cases since its founding have involved an African country, but its defenders say that the ICC is simply holding human rights violators accountable in a region that unfortunately encounters a lot of them. The effects of a $248 million migration partnership between the EU and Mauritania have started to take effect with mass deportations occurring across the country. Reports of raids and enforcement throughout Mauritania and towns were reported, and hundreds of smuggling rings were broken up. Over recent decades, Mauritania became a major transit point for undocumented immigration to the EU from all of Africa thanks to its proximity to Spain's Canary Islands. Cape Verde became the second smallest country in the world to qualify for the World Cup after defeating Eswatini in October soccer game. With just 525,000 people, only the less populated country of Iceland has previously qualified. Other first-time qualifiers in the upcoming 2026 World Cup include Uzbekistan and Jordan. For athletes from Senegal, a travel band prevented the women's national basketball team from attending a 10-day training camp in the United States. Instead, the training camp was moved to Senegal in advance of the women's Afro-Basket, Africa's continental championship, which Nigeria ended up winning, though Senegal had been victorious several times in the past. Former Gambian President Jaya Jameh ruled from 1994 to 2017 before being removed during the Gambian Revolution, but this year, controversial sales and concerns of a corruption brought young protesters out in the streets of the Gambia again. Some called it the largest youth protest in the country's history, demonstrating a growing concern, even with new leadership, about corruption in power. Despite having no art galleries and no art school, a group of five visionary artists pulled together Guinea-Besau's first art Biennale, a show featuring 50 artists from 17 countries. The show ran for a month in the nation's capital, Bissau, and in addition to printed art, live musical performances were hosted as part of the Cultural Celebration, which even more remarkably was done entirely without government funding. The world's largest known deposit of ore at 2.8 billion tons sits deep in the mountains of Guinea, and after decades of planning and investment, both locally and internationally, the first shipment mined from it was sent to China. The $20 billion Simindu Iron ore project is being touted as one that could change the future of the West African country and its economy, but part of that future is the paycheck the Guinea must give to China, which significantly invested in the infrastructure it took to make the mine operation possible. A social media influencer and dual citizen of Canada and Sierra Leone was arrested early in the year for a video she posted in 2023, laying out 25 minutes of criticism of the president and the first lady. Haba Hunt was detained on live TV and has been jailed ever since, held for two counts of, quote, transmitting and assaulting messages via a computer system. A part of strict cybersecurity laws instituted in 2021. Hunt is being held in free town, and reports about poor conditions have gained some international attention, including by Amnesty International, which is called for her release. A mid-shifting population, the Liberian government has proposed adding 14 additional seats, and the same number of new electoral districts to its House of Representatives, and what they say is a change that will better serve the public. Though it must be approved by the president, some are arguing that Liberia doesn't have the funding for the new districts. They're concurrently reviewing a bill that would also decrease sitting lawmakers' salaries. A 1,320-foot, 421-meter tall building that now ranks as the tallest in Africa, is just one legacy that fourth-term president Alessandra Utara of Cote d'Var will leave behind. The 83-year-old was sworn in this year after winning nearly 90% of the vote in a violent election that left 11 dead and some 1,600 arrested for processing the elections, which they say were unfair when Utara's two main opponents were not allowed to run. Conte Monto Market in Ghana is one of the world's largest secondhand markets, with over 30,000 shops, but a widespread fire this year burnt more than 60% of it. The market receives more than 15 million pieces of clothing each week, primarily from Western countries looking to give used or never purchase clothing a repurpose. More than 30,000 people are employed there, and nearly a full year on, they're still repairing and rebuilding. Fourth-term president Farah Gassimbe is the leader of Togo, a role he took over from his father in 2005 who had been leader since 1967. This makes them the longest running political dynasty in Africa, and low turnout for municipal elections held this year demonstrate that citizens are increasingly losing faith in the process. Gassimbe transitioned the government to a parliamentary system in 2024, which many saw as a power grab, and this year's voter apathy, subsequent protests, and government crackdown show that residents are likely right. A group of military soldiers attempted to coup in Benin, attacking institutional buildings in a plot that was quickly thwarted by officials. The attempt came in advance of a presidential election in April and was a surprise to some experts who had seen Benin as more stable than its neighbors, which have cumulatively experienced nine military takeovers between 2020 and 2023. One of those neighbors, Nigeria, flew in fighter jets at the request of the Benin government to stave off the attempt. A country that has gone without any successful coup attempts but has kept one person in power for seven terms is Cameroon. At 92, Paul Bia was sworn in as the oldest president in the world in the second longest serving in Africa, and again, residents have accused the election process of being fraudulent and corrupt. Bia did away with term limits in 2008, but going forward, his age may be the more limiting factor. Amid diminishing output from natural gas fields, chevron ink to deal with equatorial guinea for $690 billion to develop the Asang gas project, an oil field located offshore. The country's oil output peaked in 2010 and is dwindled sense, but this new injection of cash is expected to bring a new injection of output too. Eyes are on the Central African Republic and its late-december election, where Fuston, Archung, to Adara will run for president again, set to a scene where Russia has been wielding soft power through its Wagner mercenary group. The agency was enlisted in 2017 to maintain security in the country in exchange for access to mineral rights, but officials are worried about Russia's increasing role in politics and its propping up of to Adara's position. And the tension for power in South Sudan, the world's youngest country, made headlines when its vice president was put on house arrest and then later charged with treason and murder. Vice president Rik Mishar is head of the party in opposition to the president, but had been appointed by the president as part of a 2018 peace deal ending the civil war. Therefore, his 2025 arrest puts continued peace in a tenuous spot. While it stops short of a renewed civil war, violence did increase between the feuding factions. In Eritrea, 13 individuals, including one former Olympian, were released from prison after being detained without trial for 18 long years in relation to an attempted assassination of a presidential advisor. Reng toward the bottom of many human rights indicators, the release comes as a surprise, and the very fact that all 13 survived that long is a major feat. The prison which held them is reportedly little more than 20 shipping containers. Djibouti announced it was set to further his position as one of the most well-connected countries in the Horn of Africa with the extension of the Dare One under Sea Cable. The cable will run off the east coast of the continent all the way to Madagascar in South Africa, providing lower latency connections and offering improved network resiliency. As one of the more stable eastern African countries, the move furthers Djibouti's position as the region's undersea cable hub. In Ethiopia, a massive and ambitious dam project finally came to fruition with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's inauguration of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. Holding back the blue Nile, much to the frustration of downstream neighbors in Egypt and Sudan, the project began in 2011 and cost about $5 billion. For a country with absurdly high fuel prices and increasingly large fleet of electric vehicles, the idea of increasingly stable and cheap power is an exciting one. In the west of the internationally recognized country of Somalia is the internationally unrecognized country of Somali land. This year Somali land made its stance on its own sovereignty more clear and denying foreign nationals with Somalia-issued visas entry into the country while also reaffirming control over its airspace. The move comes as Somali land is working to court favor and recognition from the U.S. Kenya produces much of the world's tea. This year, they've decided to go about it a different way as the government has told tea factories to quit working with the rainforest alliance, the green frog sicker folks that seek to promote more sustainable farming practices globally. Kenyan farmers just aren't making living wages and the Kenyan government alleges that the high price to work with the alliance is being paid by the growers and not the consumers. 2025 served as a glimmer of hope for Uganda's youth and democracy advocates with an election result. I'll be it's a far away one. While democracy hangs on by a thread in Uganda, a vision of hope who happens to be one of their own won an inspiring and improbable victory in New York City of all places. Newly elected Mayor Zora Mamdani spent his first seven years in Uganda and his victory and message has Ugandan's hopeful that similar messaging can help at home. For well over 100 years, Belgium has maintained a diplomatic presence within Rwanda. But following Belgian calls for EU sanctions over Rwanda's alleged support of the violent M23 rebel group in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda expelled Belgian diplomats and cut off formal diplomatic relations with its former colonizer, citing Belgian attempts to quote, sustain its neocolonial delusions. Also flexing its sovereignty in the face of the EU this year was Gabon. Following the nation's first legitimate election after its 50-year-long dictatorship, Gabon announced that it would be withdrawing from an agreement with the EU that gave Europe access to the nation's coastal fisheries. It's bad news for Europe's tuna producers, but the arrangement was viewed as a lopsided deal for Gabon that saw little money come in while its fisheries were plundered, meaning it's a positive step forward for the fledgling democracy. The island nation of South Tomi and Prud seat also had its neighboring waters front of mind in 2025 as it made the nation's first public commitment to marine protection. Across eight separate protected coastal waters, the nation has banned certain fishing practices and severely limited others. The nation relies on fish for food and small boat fishing for work, but has never before set limits or protected certain species leading to dropping numbers and lowered biodiversity. In Sub-Saharan Africa, more than any other region in the world, drug-resistant infections are a deadly problem. This year, the Republic of Congo teamed up with the World Health Organization to try to limit this problem. They did so through simulation, setting up a realistic scenario of a drug-resistant pathogen appearing in the population that local health officials, with help from the World Health Organization, rushed to track, report, and snuff out as fast as possible. There's reason for both hope and pessimism for an end of fighting between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and M23 rebels that had advanced across the country's east over the past year. A US-brokered peace deal led to a momentary reduction in violence, but as the months passed by, both sides failed to implement the steps they agreed to, and a new offensive in early December brought back full-scale fighting. While both sides still seem loosely committed to ending the fighting, they continued to commit violent actions and largely ignore the agreement. Fling this violence, tens of thousands of refugees have crossed into Burundi, a nation that celebrated a medical first in 2025. Validated by the World Health Organization, Burundi eliminated Trakona, a bacterial eye infection which is classified as a neglected tropical disease. Such diseases have major impacts in impoverished countries, and, while treatable, they require a well-coordinated response to reap the amount. The elimination of its first neglected tropical disease is a major win for the country's public health program. In Tanzania, the outlook for democracy, free and fair elections, and general political dissension went from bad to worse. An election year, the process began with barring or resting popular opposition candidates running against the incumbent president Samia Salulu Hassan, and then escalated to a resting outspoken opposition before eventually devolving into outright violence. Following a win with a reported 97% of the vote, Tanzanian police have reportedly killed 1000 protesters in the problematic and improbable results. Wake. The early signs of a comeback showed themselves in seashells this year. With the successful hatching of 13 of 18 giant tortoisegs, conservationists have new hope that with new techniques and intervention, the giant tortoise may be able to stave off extinction. Home to one of two giant tortoise species in the world, along with 400 other endemic species, seashells has become a hotbed for innovative conservation techniques in recent years. Similarly rich in biodiversity and endemic species is Camoram's. Traditionally cut off from the rest of the world, this volcanic archipelago recently signed a deal to change that. Welcome again over $130 million from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and a host of other international boosters, the plan is to begin modernizing the country's major ports. With up to date infrastructure, the belief is that the island nation may begin to flourish as logistics hub for Africa and Asia, as well as a tourist attraction. In Mauritius, the new story that has dominated decades of debate has finally come to a close this year. In May, the UK announced it be handing sovereignty over the Chagos Islands to Mauritius, more than a half century after it split the islands away from the newly independent country. In return, the UK still gets to maintain its strategically crucial military presence on Diego Garcia as the two countries have agreed on a 99-year lease. At the news of water and power cuts, the youth of one of the world's poorest countries decided it had finally had enough this year. Madagascar's Gen Z protests started in earnest in late September with demonstrations but quickly evolved into something much bigger. With the support of an elite military branch that decided to back their movement, by mid-October, a full-scale coup was underway, sending the former president fleeing the country and installing a military colonel to the office. At the size of Switzerland, Mozambique's Niasa wild-diferserve is one of Africa's most important sanctuaries for threatened species. But this year, the reserve found itself under threat after ISIS-led terrorist attacks on a safari camp and a training center. While the Mozambique army quickly deployed, the attacks have the potential to undercut decades of conservation work. Without fences and so large to begin with, the reserve counts on the conservationist's presence, but that's hard to do when towns are now being evacuated. The Zimbabwe rolled out its first batch of a unique set of reparation payments this year. $311 million of money is starting to get paid out to some 400 white farmers, a subset of the 4,000 who were dispossessed of their land by the government in the early 2000s. It marks just the beginning as the country agreed to pay out $3.5 billion in compensation in 2020. To make sure these payments continue, the IMF and World Bank have held back funding in the country until it is paid off this debt. In 2022, Malawi's Kassungu National Park introduced 263 elephants to the preserve. Three years on, neighboring villages are now suing over it. Claiming that the elephants have killed at least 10 people, injured others, and have left all living in a state of fear, locals are asking for protective fencing around 167 villages and compensation for damages. And in Zambia, elephants there killed an American and a New Zealander who were on safari in Luangua National Park. Guides attempted to thwart the charging elephants, but were unable to deter them. Reports note that female elephants can be especially dangerous when protecting their young. In the form of an NGO report, 2025 presented a hurdle for Angola's potentially transformative rail project. Backed by the US and the EU, the revitalization of the Lobito Atlantic Railway is bound to have major economic ramifications as it will connect Angola's rich minds to the coast. But a report that 6,500 people will be potentially displaced by the project has thrown some cold water on the excitement and led an EU spokesperson to reaffirm they'll keep a close eye on social and economic impacts before going forward with their support for the project. Namibia in 2025 observed its first genocide remembrance day. The date, May 28, was chosen for commemoration as it was May 28, 1908 when Germany ordered the closure of all southwest African concentration camps. Speaking on the day, Namibia's president called for patience and unity as the nation continues to seek reparations for the 100,000 deaths at the hand of Germany's genocide of the Ova Herrerao and Nama people. In Botswana, officials cut the nation's projected economic growth estimates for the year to almost zero. By value, Botswana is the world's largest diamond producer, and the less than enthusiastic economic outputs is a reflection as to just how much the diamond economy has changed. With lab-grown diamonds beneficial for both global laborers and global consumers, it's unlikely this is just a blip for the nation, which now needs to diversify. Drought and wildfires have rocked southern Africa in the last few years, and this year, the effort to adapt to a rapidly changing environment and address these worsening problems was decided to be headquartered in Iswa-Tinni. Iswa-Tinni's center of excellence on drought resilience will produce research, work with regional stakeholders, and act as a center for collaborating NGOs, international bodies, and neighboring nations. On the region's water crisis, the Lusutu Highlands Water Project that aims to supply water to South Africa's Johannesburg is making progress towards its 2029 completion date, but not all are happy about it. In Lusutu, small towns near the project are citing low-quality water and a general lack of transparency in forced relocations and subsequent compensation. They're taking the issue up with the African Development Bank, which is helping fund this project, but seem to fail in making it fair and transparent. While importing water, South Africa has been exporting troops. With no international agreement between Russia and South Africa for the latter to provide troops in Ukraine, South African news this year broke a story of three of their own trapped fighting in Ukraine. How exactly they, Ben 14 others, ended up in this situation as being worked out, but the soldiers claimed that they were tricked by a parliament member and daughter of former president Dudizile Zuma Zambula. Admitting no guilt, but resigning from the position, the politician has supported Russia's cause from afar. And that's it! One piece of news from every country in the world. The idea of this was to help you broaden your knowledge base so you know at least a little bit about what's going on everywhere in the world. It's certainly useful to have a broad knowledge base, and I'm guessing you recognize that if you got all the way to country 193. If you want to keep that learning going, I'd recommend our sponsor, Brilliant. As someone who did not excel at math in school, I used to feel it was a missing area in my broad knowledge base, and it was a harder thing to learn independently than other subjects like history or geography. That is, until I tried Brilliant. They offer learning that's personalized to you, meticulously crafted courses with interactive problem solving exercises that help you learn fundamental concepts of complex subjects. I love how you can start from basically any level and keep progressively leveling up all the way until you understand mind-bending subjects like number theory and the concept of infinity. They also offer learning tracks for other STEM subjects like data analysis, science and logical reasoning. And with a mobile app, Brilliant is a great way to fit learning into your day. You can make meaningful progress towards lofty learning goals just in your time on the bus or waiting for your next meeting. Brilliant has been one of Windovers' longest running sponsors thanks to how many Windover viewers find it worthwhile, which personally I don't find too surprising. Windover viewers seem to like learning in their free time, and so do Brilliant users. To learn for free on Brilliant for 30 days, go to Brilliant.org slash Windover, scan the QR code on screen, or click the link in the description. Brilliant's also given our viewers 20% off an annual premium subscription, which gives you unlimited daily access to everything on Brilliant.