This is StoreQuest Self Storage. It's brand new, fenced in, secure, climate controlled, and conveniently located off the main thoroughfare of the town in which it resides. Carbon Nail. This is so-per-self storage. It too is mostly new, as this major addition was completed in 2023, pushing total available units somewhere near 500. And it too is convenient, just off Main Street and straddling the divide between downtown and residential areas. Just north, there's more. All western self-storage, mid-valley self-storage, store it all, and just a couple miles outside of city limits, there's Carbondale Mini Storage. That makes six self-storage companies within a five-minute drive. That's a lot. But what makes it feel like more than a lot is the fact that this isn't Carbondale Illinois, home to a university in 22,000 people, it's lesser-known namesake Carbondale Colorado, a town of under 7,000 residents. While their designs attempt to camouflage, plans, tucked away in industrial nucks or hidden behind local art, in this tiny town, there are more self-storage locations than banks, than bars, than places to grab breakfast. Zoom out, and it gets even crazier. Four more here, five here, four here, two here, more than 20 facilities within 25 miles or 40 kilometers from the heart of this town. But this is not a glut, nor a bubble set to burst, it's all an attempt to catch up to demand. All these are mostly full. Justifying new construction of the store quest and the expansion of so-per-self storage was the fact that in 2021, the entire town, and really the entire valley within which this town sits, bookended by the gateway of Glenwood Springs on one end and the Ritsey Resort Town of Aspen on the other, ran out of storage entirely. After more than a decade, it's felt as though you just couldn't build enough storage units to keep up with demand. This much is not unique to this particular corner of Colorado though. Over the past 20 years, this industry has boomed and kept booming across the US. Self-storage facilities have infiltrated urban areas like Brooklyn, they've risen from the suburban sprawl surrounding Phoenix, they've pushed their way into rural areas. Really anywhere there are people in America, there are self-storage businesses. More than one in every 10 Americans used them. With 52,301 total facilities as of 2024, there are more self-storage locations than there are subways, Starbucks, and McDonald's combined. And once again, they fill up fast. While business has slightly slowed from pandemic highs, occupation rate estimates still put the number at around or just under 90%. Every year, more and more self-storage hits the markets, and it seems as though more and more Americans need self-storage. In terms of simple supply and demand, it's just good business as it's a relationship benefiting both the company and the everyday American. The absurd weed-like propagation of these facilities and their sneaky centrality in urban spaces and American lives is unique to the US, but not entirely for the reasons one might think. By any metric, Americans are top in the world in spending and consumption. High-disposable income, a rather materialistic and e-commerce-obsessed culture, and a lot of cheap, accessible goods has the average American simply compiling a lot of physical stuff. But it's more complicated than demand side gluttony. Rather, it's a physical outcome across American cities and towns big and small, informed by a blend of supply and demand factors that range from land prices and lending to average cost of living and frequency of moving. The thing is, sell storage is a concept is partly unique to the US. Just north-west of London is the town of Hemelheimstead, and it similarly has self-storage. It is four facilities to be exact, and like Carmandale, there are mix between industrial areas and spaces nearer to downtown and right off major throughways. Given the comparative density to rural Colorado, there are multi-story buildings with limited drive-up access, but still look fairly similar to something you'd see in a bigger US city like Denver, Colorado. The difference, though, is in scale. Hemelheimstead is home to more than 90,000 people spreading its self-storage facilities to roughly one for every 19,000 people. Carmandale, in comparison, has roughly one facility for every 1,000 people. Expanding to national trends, Britain has about 0.9 square feet of self-storage per person, while the average American has access to some 6 square feet of self-storage. Self-storage is a thing in Britain, but it's dramatically less prevalent. In Canada and Australia, likely the most culturally and geographically similar countries to the US, it's the same story. Sure, there's self-storage, in a city like Squamish, a similar gateway town to the mountains as Carmandale, there are 10 self-storage facilities in fact, but still there, the numbers don't stack up with the US's. Squamish is a town that nearly quadruples Carmandale in population, while at the national scale, Canada per capita has about 2-3 square feet of self-storage, while Australia is at about 2. So both sit at just a fraction of American availability. Such a discrepancy can't be explained by consumerism alone. A fuller picture begins to take shape when one considers the business proposition from the supply side. No matter where you go in the States, when looking at self-storage, you'll notice a lot of place-based names. In Carmandale, for instance, there's Carmandale mini-storage, mid-valley self-storage, and soprice self-storage, named after the massive mountain overlooking the town. In Tempe, Arizona, there's Tempe self-storage, Tempe choice self-storage, and Sun Devil State Storage paying homage to Arizona State University nearby. This is because, in the commercial real-state world, self-storage is a highly fragmented industry. There are some big names. Store quests, for example, exist in both Carmandale and Tempe, while public storage, the largest name in the industry, has about 10 locations in the broader Phoenix area. But this niche within commercial real-state isn't cornered or dominated by big operators that use their sheer size to bleed out competition like Starbucks or Walmart would. By facility count, 22.5% of all self-storage is run by publicly traded operators. 12.9% is run by other top 100 operators, leaving 64.6% run by small, generally mom-and-pop operators. A reflection that self-storage is by far the most accessible opportunity to get into commercial real-state, largely on account of cost. In commercial real-state, location is everything, and it's no different for the self-storage sector. But self-storage isn't about centrality, but proximity. Rather than having to fork over the hefty price for the high-foot traffic of main streets that retail requires, self-storage in the US optimizes for space and ease of vehicle access rather than the walkability and neighboring amenities an apartment developer is looking for. Self-storage can exist and thrive on the periphery. And critically, so long as it fosters a sense of security, self-storage doesn't require any frills or sort of a learning surroundings. It can exist and thrive in the formerly industrial areas of town, and the nooks and crannies where apartments wouldn't fit and retail business wouldn't prosper. This gives the self-storage self-starter a huge leg up as they're not competing for the most in-demand land or properties, but the forgotten ones, and therefore, the cheap ones. Then the cost savings are compounded by cheap building on cheap land. Even if a unit is rather state-of-the-art, building climate-controlled steel and concrete lockers on top of simple concrete bases runs about $30-70 a square foot, a comparative bargain. Let's say if this 375 unit addition to so-per-self storage averaged out to a modest 10x5 feet per unit and it cost on the upper end given the expensive cost of construction in the state and the upper end amenities it offers. That would put this building at a very rough cost of $1.32 million. Compare that to this, the Hubbit Willets, a nearby affordability-focused apartment project that offers 52,000 square feet of living space but at a cost of $19 million. One cost an estimated $70 a square foot, the other I reported $358 a square foot. Two buildings, 10 miles apart in distance, and worlds apart in price. Of course, this is just a rough estimate and doesn't consider land acquisition, but simply puts, storage. No matter how fancy is dirt cheap to build. Together land and building style make the upfront investment manageable. Should someone have a vacant lot or find one on the cheap, they can get into the self-storage game for potentially under a million dollars incurring comparatively minimal debt and not necessarily relying on outside investment into the project. If you're a developer, require outside funding, it's just not terribly difficult to get a loan for these projects either as their straightforward case for lending is one that banks are quick to back. In 2023, regional banks accounted for 85% of all lending for self-storage. And once up and running, overhead is minimal. For employees, a facility only requires someone to run the desk and maintain the property. For utilities, a facility requires some electricity less than a household worth of water availability to run the office restroom and really nothing else. But while one may be able to get into this business solo, they certainly won't be alone. As a sign of the niche's maturity, the business of self-storage has become a business in itself. Statistics on the national state of storage, for instance, aren't kept by any sort of national organization, and yet there are a lot available thanks to publications like Modern Storage Media's annual self-storage almanac, or they arise from research by services like storage cafes, spare-foot, store-ganize, BMS group self-storage consulting, a whole host of companies now exist solely to provide information on self-storage. For market research, there's a service that does that too, Radius Plus, an online mapping service that tracks critical info like zoning restrictions, lot prices, local demographics, and self-storage rates, and can serve to help inform decisions about building and maintaining self-storage companies. Beyond these subscriptions, self-storage has benefited mightily from the rabbit hole of short-form video and long-form podcasts. From strategy to outright bragging, the Internet is replete with developers and investors selling their returns, the passive income, the ease of entry to the self-storage industry. The whole industry has turned into a self-congratulatory ecosystem making self-storage seem almost too good of an investment to be true. And perhaps it is. After a post-pandemic building boom, things have slowed down a bit. For 20 years of steadily rising rent rates and steadily dropping vacancy, trends have flipped. It's a trend strong enough for none other than the New York Times to note. But ultimately, it's a trend that shouldn't really worry the industry. It's going from red hot to hot. And more importantly, it's an industry that seems to be remarkably steady, and that much is thanks to the demand side. Beyond comparative cost competitiveness and ease of entry, self-storage operates as a fairly non-cyclical industry. That means when the economy is hot, self-storage does fine. When in recession, self-storage does fine. The industry is less impacted by the movement of the economy and more so by the movement of Americans. Rather than markets, American storage follows demographic change. Within the industry, the most important indicators are the four Ds. Divorce, death, downsizing, and decluttering, although increasingly this is supplemented with a fifth D disaster. In the U.S., Americans turn to self-storage when their lives are disrupted, whether on their own accounts like decluttering to make room for an expected child, or because of things well beyond their control like a hurricane or a death in the family. More than doubling Europeans by moving on average about 11 times during their life, Americans' lives are disrupted seemingly constantly, allowing self-storage to escape the traditional economic cycles informing so many other sectors. When things are good, an American is likely to simply spend more on possessions or have a child or buy a bigger house, all of which serve as reasons to get into a storage lease for a certain amount of time. When things go bad, an American may look to downsize their apartment or find a roommate or move back in with family. All reasons to stuff a storage locker while things get sorted out. Recession resilient, self-storage's steadiness goes further. It's pandemic resilient, too, as COVID-Area online retail brought more goods into American households while the urge to turn a garage into a personal home gym or a spare bedroom into a work from home office pushed more household goods to the nearest storage facility. In any life situation, self-storage is a cheap, easy solution to clear some clutter, and with $1 first month promos, a plethora of options and cheap competitive rates, it's just too easy to get in. And once in, it's really hard to get out. The industry calls its customers sticky, which effectively means once you get them in the door, it's unlikely they're going to leave. Like a subscription to a streaming service that one signs up for for only one show, self-storage operators hope that the customer stays a little longer than they intended, or find alternative uses for the service to keep justifying the monthly expense. Unlike a streaming service that takes just a few clicks to cancel, storage requires a comparatively uncomfortable process to get out of the deal. They need to physically move everything out of the unit and find a new home for all that clutter. So they stay, and the industry counts on them staying, slowly hiking the rates from 5 to 15% a year to collect what was lost in the initial promotional offer. Well, perhaps bordering on predatory through rate hikes, this deal works for both parties as self-storage has worked for both operator and customer, and the more Americans consume, the more self-storage gets built, and the more self-storage gets built, the more rates remain relatively low compared to those around the world. Effectively, self-storage seems a rather virtuous cycle for those who own them and those who use them. But what about the other 85% of Americans who stuff fits within their home? The downsides of America's self-storage begins with the cost of the communities that harbor them. In 2018, the city of Denver recognized as much with a zoning map that looked like this. The bubbles represent a buffer zone. Small pockets where self-storage wouldn't be allowed. A minimal concession in the grand scheme of things, but a move that signals the spatial toll self-storage takes on a city. For the 90% of people that don't use a storage unit or own a self-storage business, these businesses get in the way. They don't create meaningful employment. They don't add to local foot traffic to benefit other businesses. They don't foster community. They don't promote any progressive land use or higher density living. Even though they occupy largely left over and overlooked lands, cityscapes can change quickly and these can get in the way of later change for the better. Take carbon-dales, so-per-self storage. While it once existed on the very edge of a main street that used to be more residential in nature, its neighborhood has become a bit of a hub. There's a deli and coffee shop, a yoga studio, two pilates studios, and a couple of restaurants nearby. This end of the downtown corridor has become busier with business patrons, but getting in the way of increased business development is the fact that this trend is hamstrung by a big, bland, fenced-off, car-oriented self-storage facility. The same goes with the store quest. No one has exactly been clamoring to develop this bit of land near the electrical substation, but as the town grows and more and more local businesses and shops come to surround it, such town-forward growth will inevitably be stymied by a huge building that serves a very few and has to be hidden behind a wall and a bunch of local art. Even in the forgotten industrial corners of communities, it's not hard to argue that self-storage is less than ideal land use. Whether it's creative reuse of space like breweries or gyms or industrial revitalization or the development of mixed-use commercial real estate, industrial sections of cities and post-industrial cities are being creatively reimagined across the US and again, self-storage gets in the way. Cities have recognized as much. Beyond Denver, which sought to protect higher-density development along its light rail corridors by banning self-storage at quarter mile from stations, city councils from Florida and Georgia to New York and Idaho have passed bands and moratoriums on self-storage in one form or another. Some last, others don't, but all serve to show that when critically considered, this self-storage bananza just isn't healthy for long-term urban development. And more abstractly, self-storage, while not the outcome of just Americans' zap-tight for stuff, isn't healthy for consumption habits either. Americans are drowning in clutter, they know as much, and they don't like it. But self-storage is only a band-aid, a means to pay for a service that doesn't solve the problem, but hides it. An arguably self-storage only makes things worse, creating a cycle of buying and hiding, buying and hiding, which only promotes further e-commerce growth and big-box store business. Self-storage may well be good business that's uniquely accessible to the little guy. It may well be a service that many Americans actually use and quite appreciate. It may well be the result of trends far more diverse and complicated in origin than rampant consumerism. But at the end of the day, it's not a 21st-century phenomena set to benefit the average American, or the American urban landscape in the long term. What I hope is bound to benefit the average American in the near term, okay, well, the average Nebula subscriber, is a brand new docus series that we're ready to release on this video sponsor, Nebula. This bring we took the whole went over team and followed the biggest annual scavenger hunt in the world, and soon our docus series about it will be available to stream exclusively on Nebula. Nebula is an independent streaming service originally founded by myself and a bunch of other creators with the aim to platform larger scale, larger budget, more creative and adventurous projects like SCAV, which required us to bring a whole team of story producers and videographers to the University of Chicago to document a truly outrageous annual tradition put together by an awesome and unique collection of characters. Beyond this Nebula original, the library of ambitious projects taken on by YouTubers expanding their boundaries is deep and only getting deeper. From down I express, a travel and challenge series, to the ultra compelling 17 pages documentary that blends a wild story with amazing motion graphics, a lot of your favorite creators are really pushing their boundaries through Nebula originals. And for the content you already like on YouTube from these creators, it's just better on Nebula as we post our videos over there first and there are no ads in any of them. Give Nebula try, it really helps us and we really believe in the quality of the product. Follow the link in the description below and get 40% off your annual subscription. Or as the holidays begin to come into frame, consider a gift card where you can bring someone else to Nebula for a month, for a year or even for a lifetime subscription.