This is Beaverton, Oregon. It's within this wooded, comparatively quiet Portland suburb where Nike's been headquartered since the 70s. It's here on this 400 acre campus, replete with a jogging trail, a running track, a soccer pitch, a basketball gym, a research lab, and countless office buildings where Nike is desperately trying to get their business back on track. Peaceful on the outside, Panic is mounted within the company as it loses market share in the athletic shoe market, it helped pioneer. Fungling launches and failing to innovate, America's largest shoe company is in a funk. While 67% of the company's total revenue comes from shoes, nowhere on this campus will you actually find a shoe factory. No where in the US nor the world in fact will you find a Nike-owned shoe factory because Nike's not a shoemaker. Its business is more abstract. The company's SEC filings will tell you it's not a shoe company at all, but rather list the Nike and swish design trademarks as its most valuable assets. To fill night, the company's founder now in his late 80s, Nike's business is inspiring and innovating for athletes while the filings call it a company that provides design, development and worldwide marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessory, and services. In other words, Nike's not a shoemaker, but a taste maker. And taste making when it comes to shoes is a pretty fickle business. Shoes are tools, but not just for walking and working. A study by researchers at the University of Kansas has shown that when subjects are just shown someone's footwear without any other context, they're able to guess with fairly high accuracy, the age, gender, income range, and even personality traits and political leanings of the person in question. The finding only backs what consumers already knew though. People judge based on shoes and recognize they get judged based on shoes, so they make shoe choices to cultivate an image or tell their own personal story, whether that be who they are or who they aspire to be. Extroverts will reach for norm disrupting red shoes while those hoping to not sick out will prioritize quieter shoes and bland styles, for instance. One way or another, we use shoes to understand others, and so we in turn select shoes to help frame how people think of ourselves. Shoes and shoe selection tell stories, and Nike used to be the best storyteller. If you don't know the story of Nike's rise, it's laid out across the map of the company's campus. At the end of one-bowerman drive, named after the company co-founder, on the shore of Lake Nike, neighboring the Michael Jordan and John McElroy buildings, and across from their Ronaldo field, is Steve Prefontaine Hall, appropriately at the core of the campus. Few characters embody the Nike story like Steve Prefontaine or Pre, and that's by design. Before Nike was a giant, before it was even called Nike, it was little more than the young, ambitious Phil Knight, a lifetime runner himself, importing sleek Japanese running shoes. It was a disruptor, a plucky underdog, a fighter looking to carve out just a bit of market share in a nascent American jogging boom at the beginning of the 1970s. At about the same time that Nike started getting momentum, a scrappy runner from an old coastal logging town in Oregon was beginning to rise. Prefontaine ran distance events for the University of Oregon under Coach Bill Bowerman, who was also designing running shoes for Nike. He was pre-begin to establish himself as America's best distance runner, it was only natural that he joined the brand. But Pre's central to Nike's rise, not just because he was good at track, but because of how he went about being good at track. Prefontaine won a host of collegiate titles, he set American records, he went to Munich in 1972 to represent the US at the Olympics, he was an undeniable talent. He was also a character, he was a working class kid from a tough industrial town, he was small, scrappy, handsome, and brash, he was cocky, but he backed it up with a work ethic that still revered in American running culture. He appeared on the cover of sports illustrated at 19, his races were aired on national TV, his go pre-T-shirts became so popular they were met by a backlash of stop pre-shirts, he was an American star and he wore Nike. When signed to the company, pre-rept Nike shoes at Run Clubs and public meetups, he traveled to high school and college programs to demo them, he sent them to friends and rivals around the world, he pushed the product and the producer, a brash upstart of its own, embody the kid's spirit. Nike was doing it their own way too, with shoes that pushed the boundaries first with the Nike Cortez that added mid-soul cushioning for runners. They then took the technology another step forward with the Nike waffle trainer designed to be lightweight and grippy while staying comfortable and padded. Ultimately, a fatal car crash claimed pre before he was able to wear his own signature shoe, the pre-muntrials, but his indomitable spirit had catalyzed a movement. Title IX and televised track races and marathons helped spur a running boom that saw an estimated 25 million new runners enter the scene in the US across the decade and they wanted to be like pre. They went with Nike, the upstart all about running and innovating comfortable shoes that were also worn by the most iconic and inspirational runner the US had produced. The running revolution transformed the American shoe landscape too. As running took off and the shoes became more comfortable, it became okay to wear trainers not to train but never-day life. At the beginning of the 1970s, athletic shoes only accounted for one in every 12 pairs sold. By 1979, it was won in four pairs. The shoe game had transformed and Nike was in the middle of it. By 1980, Nike made up 50% of all running shoe sales in the US and was quickly closing the gap on a deedus in total athletic shoe sales. And with the success of the pre-partnership, Nike now had a model to grow into other spaces too. It recognized a trend, in this case an uptick in running and jogging in the US, it found someone who embodied the movement and then it leaned into it, creating further demand and momentum within the movement. It recognized what was becoming cool and helped make it cool at the same time. But fashion changes fast and in the 80s, culture went urban. Nike shoes weren't cool, basketball shoes were. It caught Nike flat footed, reporting its first losses in 1984 and sending it scrambling to reinstate Phil Knight's active control of the company to fight back on the encroaching converse, new balance, and Reebok. Nike had the model, but neither the shoe nor the athlete. Then it said it's crosshairs on a young promising player in Michael Jordan. While the legacy may speak for itself today, as Michael Jordan would become the best basketball player in the world and the Jordan brand, a branch of Nike, when it self become one of the largest shoe brands in the world, this strategy at the time was extremely bold. Not the first pick in the draft and playing a position not yet associated with basketball dominance, Jordan was hardly locked to be the face of the league when he went into the National Basketball Association. Nike was making a bet on upside. Without a past in basketball shoes and far behind the converse and Adidas basketball brands, they had to be bold to compete and creative to find a niche to gain a foot hold in the space and convince an entirely unconvinced Jordan to even join the brand in the first place. They melded bold and creative with the shoe design and marketing campaign all in one. At the time, basketball shoes to be worn in the NBA had to be 51% the color white. But Nike had an idea. Make a flashy, colorful Michael Jordan shoe, ignore the rule, and simply deal with the consequences. To be worth the visibility regardless, it fit the brand and it excite the player. In 1984, a rookie Michael Jordan took the court with shoes that intentionally broke the rules and Nike paid the $5,000 fine. It was genius. Ultimately, he'd only wear them on three occasions that season as the NBA promised to make a stronger stand on the issue should have persist, but three times proved plenty. They pushed the Jordan one on the message that not only is this your new favorite player shoe, it's a shoe so radical in counter culture it's banned from the game it's designed for. The shoe, in turn, sold out immediately and totaled $126 million in sales in its first year. Nike stuck to the same playbook as they grew into other realms. It was pre-fontane and running in the 70s. It was Jordan and basketball in the 80s. It was Tiger Woods and Golf in the 90s. Serena Williams and tennis alongside Ronaldo and soccer in the 2000s. Nike became the world's biggest by backing the moldbreakers and acting like they were the bold up-and-comers themselves. They had an edge. They were for winners. They didn't make excuses. They just did it and customers took it hook, line, and sinker. But a problem and a fundamental one at that. When a company is born out of the idea of a scrappy underdog disruptor but succeeds to the point where it's now the industry leader, it's hard to maintain that same identity and relentless drive. Fast forward to the 2026 Winter Olympic Games. What you see is Team USA covered head to toe in Nike. But this isn't a picture of Nike's maintained dominance. Rather, it's what the company hopes will be the beginning of a comeback story. These American athletes are wearing a Nike sub-label called All Conditions Gear or ACG and the fact that this hasn't reached name-brand recognition across a public audience highlights one of the brand's many fumbles in the past 20 years. The running shoe market has taken a unique path in the last decade. Running shoes of all sorts are as popular as ever, but trail running shoes, a comparatively rugged off-road option, are especially hot. While trail runners make up a fraction of total running shoe sales, a number cited at 12 percent in 2022, they're steadily outpacing conventional running shoes in projected annual compound growth. Running shoes are in, but trail runners are even more in. Just as trainers, basketball shoes, and running shoes found their way into casual fashion in the past, now so too have trail runners. Brands specializing in maximally cushioned trail shoes like Hoka have warmed their way into everyday shoe rotations for service jobs and weekend chores alike. Solomon's rugged mountain running shoes have unexpectedly become popular with Gen Zers in the urban environs of New York City. It goes further, too. This outdoor gear popularity has expanded beyond shoes. It's called Gorb-Corp. It's led to urban fashion and urban celebrities turning to outdoor brands and their Gore-Tex offerings to establish today's taste. It means a big up-to-can-sales for trail running suppliers, above which Nike is desperately trying to catch up by relaunching its outdoor line in 2026. What's glaring is not only that Nike is late to the trend, but the fact that this is a trend they helped establish but lacked the vision to see through. Nike launched its first trail shoe in 1984, it launched ACG in 1988, and it helped invent the trail shoe, taking the tread of hiking boots and matching them with the uppers of running shoes. It was a visionary in the technology and it began to build out the style, too, blending performance with the signature Nike brassiness, the color, the prints, the fun that the outdoor space lacked. But in the 2000s, they let the branch wither on the vine. The lack of follow-through in vision became a theme. This is Nike's total market share of athletic shoes in 2000. It holds a dominant 42% of all sales and outpaces its next three largest competitors combined. And this is what its market share looked like in 2022. With the Jordan brand under the Nike umbrella, it still maintains a similarly strong 36% market share. It's still outpaces the next three largest brands in the space combined, but market share serves as only a free-stream in time. It doesn't consider momentum, and these brands that are beginning to claw away market share are making big moves. Hoka, new balance, soccone, puma, and asics are some of the names, along with Brooks and On, they're leading the charge in the specialty running market. Now, specialty running shoes is a rather vague term, but effectively is a host of brands that are innovating hard in specific niches. More broadly, it can be understood as companies that are out-innovating Nike. In specialty running shops, stores with educated staff selling running shoes to runners, essentially the simplest way to understand runners' preferences, Brooks and Hoka lead the way and account for almost half of sales. New balance on and soccone make up the next 29%, while Nike, which has pivoted away from in-store sales and deemphasized running across the board, sat at less than 5%. In speed, a category Nike running once dominated with its vapor fly line that became the world's fastest road running shoe, Nike has been caught by Adidas and in the lab, passed by Puma. In comfort and cushioning, concepts foreign to running shoes prior to Nike, it's been overtaken by the maximally supportive Hokas and corrective Brooks shoes, both popular in running, but also brand leaders for on-your-feet type jobs like hospital work. Even in unapologetically bold design, Nike's been passed by On running. A Swiss shoe recognizable for its cloud tech that's equally eye-catching and pleasingly comfortable, the story of On's come up feels reminiscent to that of Nike's. Rather than using a waffle iron to create a one-of-a-kind tread, On's founder Oliver Bernard, a triathlete, couldn't find a shoe that would properly address some lingering Achilles pain, so he set out to create something new. In 2010, the concept of cloud tech was born when Bernard attached a bisected bit of garden hose to the heel of his shoe. Before deciding to build a brand around the idea, he took it to a sponsor who ultimately turned the idea down. The sponsor was Nike. Nike missed on On and fell behind across the board in running because it had spent much of the last decade putting out fires. In 2004, Nike did something it hadn't done before. It brought in a CEO from outside the company and it paid for that decision. While William Perez only lasted two years as CEO, it set Nike back. Data driven rather than the gut feel future Ford approach that defined the company, Perez focused his efforts on sales in the present rather than era-defining innovation. This by Nike lifer Mark Parker, Nike would regain its bearings, but it had to navigate some scandal too. Tiger Woods' public marital issues in 2009, then Lance Armstrong's Doping in 2013 put the giant NPR defense mode, a position difficult to innovate from. And even in the spaces they continue to push innovation, distance running in particular, scandal rocked the company. The immensely successful marathoner, then marathon coach Alberto Salazar, was so central to the Nike distance running project that he had a building named after him. But that changed first with allegations of his athletes' Doping, then an investigation into the issue that Salazar banned, and finally athlete allegations over abusive conduct from the disgrace coach from 2015 to 2019. At the same time, the company faced a sexual discrimination lawsuit alleging that the boys club culture of the company had resulted in discrimination, retaliation, and unfair wages across sexes. The two scandals ultimately culminated with Parker stepping down as CEO. Way down by an increasingly tarnished reputation, Nike began looking backwards instead of forward, and again brought in leadership from outside the company. This time it was John Donahue at the helm, and with the mandate to build out the company's digital footprint, he played the hits, and at first it worked. Nike went direct to consumer right as COVID hits, and right as a much anticipated Michael Jordan documentary debuted during the pandemic, they pushed the Jordan's and Air Force lines. Sales boomed for the moment, but innovation flatlined, relationships with shoe carriers and wholesaler sourd, and Nike's seated shell space just as in-person shopping roared back to life. It sensed navigated the company's worst day in 2024 as stocks dropped 20% in a single day, then reported its worst fall revenue in 2025 with an 11.5% year over year drop. Nike had bought him out because in a business of storytelling, it had lost its own plot. It was no longer making shoes for the future, it was relying on those from the past. It was no longer producing an image or a product that people could trust, it was no longer the scrappy winner, it was the bloated institution so scared of failing. Never in its history has Nike felt like something of the past until the present, as athlete after athlete has turned away from the brand. Now Donne, he was gone and in his place is Elliott Hill and he knows the company's story as well as anyone. Starting as an intern at Nike in 1988, there's company wide hope that Hill can get Nike back to what it was best at. And so far, there's reason for some guarded optimism. The relaunch of ACG has been a shot in the arm while Hill has pushed hard to get Nike back into the wholesale game and back on shelves. Relationships are on the men too, as the new CEO has taken off on business trip after business trip to men relationships between some of the sports biggest names and biggest brands to ensure they stay with the swish. Time will tell if these relationships can hold and if Hill can build back consumer trust that's waned over the past 10 years. But at its core, the company might be back, as it's finally finding its fight again. When we're putting these videos together, what can also prove to be a fight is finding the right clips and footage that helps tell this story we're trying to tell. That's where the sponsor of today's video comes in, Storyblocks. Since the beginning of this channel and through today, Storyblocks' service has been instrumental in making all this happen. Going out into the world to film is wildly expensive and time consuming, while licensing footage, whether it's a one-off deal or through a different service, is quite costly too, as you're often paying by the clip. Storyblocks, in this way, is different. It's a subscription service, so you pay a flat rate for everything they have and not go by the clip. And that's massive because Storyblocks has a ton of helpful services. For one, there's a catalog of footage. It's all human-made, it's easy to navigate, and it has something to just about cover every ask whether you're trying to tell your story with compelling visuals as a content creator or a business owner. Storyblocks is more than just a catalog of clips too. They have music, they have sound effects, and editing templates that are going to speed up your workflow and professionalize your product. Long before the company sponsored videos like this, we use the service, so I can tell you from personal experience that Storyblocks is going to save you time, it's going to give you some peace of mind because all it has to offer is license and ready to go, and finally it's going to save you some money right now because they're offering 15% off the annual plan. Storyblocks has been a huge aid to this channel, and it could be a huge aid to your visual storytelling too, so start telling better stories by heading to storyblocks.com slash findover and get 15% off any of their annual plans by following our link only for a limited time. Storyblocks has been a huge aid to your visual storytelling, and finally it's going to give you some more content.