Europe and North America are the two most culturally and economically interlinked continents in the world, yet an ocean stands between them. It co-loss a number of people travel between the two for work, for family, or for fun, making the North Atlantic the largest and most valuable long haul aviation market in the world. Logic would then follow that it's the most competitive long haul aviation market in the world, and while it might look that way, sitting at JFK Airport, watching dozens of different European airlines roll by, the logos painted on the side are merely a façade. On the surface, it appears that 33 different airlines fly 126 different routes between New York and Europe. These are not only the big players like B.A., Air France, and KLM flying to major destinations like London, Paris, and Amsterdam, but also plenty of smaller airlines like Air Serbia, High Sky, or Azores Airlines serving smaller markets like Belgrade, Bucharest, or Punta del Gata. This appears like a healthy competitive landscape, until you look closer. If you wanted to fly, say, to Brussels, you'd have a choice between a 6-10pm departure from JFK on Brussels Airlines, or a 6-30 from Newark on United. But what you wouldn't have is a choice on how much to pay because almost every single day, the airlines are charging the same price. But there's a good reason for this. Brussels Airlines and United are effectively acting as a single airline. It's the same thing for Munich. United operates a 515 from Newark, Lufthansa a 530 from JFK, then another Newark frequency at 830, all priced identically. This is a cartel. Not a drug cartel, but a business cartel. Brussels Airlines, United, Lufthansa, as well as Swiss and Austrian airlines are all colluding. Together, they decide how often to fly, where to fly, and crucially how much to charge. Individually, they don't care who flies what, because they pull Trans-Atlantic revenue, then distribute it according to the terms of their joint venture agreement. It doesn't matter to United whether a passenger takes them or Lufthansa to Frankfurt, they'll learn the same amount regardless. This all means that, from the perspective of competition economics, these five airlines are really acting as one. This is intriguing. If you refer to Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it reads, quote, The following shall be prohibited as incompatible with the internal market, all agreements that directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices. It's hardly a secret that these airlines are price fixing, they'll happily discuss it with their investors. This would leave any normal business in a world of legal trouble, but the United and Lufthansa-led cartel has this. In this document, the European Commission outlines their decision to exempt these airlines from antitrust law. This is a legally approved cartel. European and American regulators have allowed these airlines to collude against the consumer, and it's not the only such case. The next largest encompasses Delta, Virgin Atlantic, KLM, and Air France, representing about 26% of the Trans-Atlantic market from New York. Then the third major Trans-Atlantic joint venture includes American Airlines, Airlingus, British Airways, FNAIR, Iberia, and Level, operating a further 18% of flights. Together, this sums to 75% of all year bound flights from New York. 75% of all flights in the most lucrative long-haul market in the world are operated by just three entities. Regardless, it is still true that New York has perhaps the most robust European competition of any U.S. airport, but that means that elsewhere, the problem is even worse. In the smaller market of DC, for example, these three joint ventures encompass 85% of all Trans-Atlantic flights, severely cipheling competition, and that stat will go up to 89% soon if SAS and ETA Airways are granted approval to join the Sky team and Star Alliance joint ventures as they intend. Now, the majority of the legal proceedings allowing for such collusion have taken place just a subway right away from Delus Airport at the U.S. Department of Transportation. American law does allow the DOT to grant antitrust immunity to airlines, but there's one key stipulation. They must mean that the public benefits enabled by collusion outweigh the negative consequences of reduced competition. Therefore, airlines submit long winding arguments to the DOT explaining why, in their opinion, the public would benefit so greatly from their collusion. One of the most recent cases took place between 2012 and 2019 as Virgin Atlantic sought inclusion into Delta's existing Trans-Atlantic joint venture to start they pursued antitrust immunity on U.S. UK routes. Their legal argument was all in support of this one line, quote, the joint venture will be a more effective competitor on U.S. UK routes. They explain that the crux of the public benefit would be, quote, the creation of a meaningful competitive alternative to the alliance between American Airlines and British Airways that presently dominates the U.S. UK markets. The pair characterized their flight frequencies as a key cause of their ineffectiveness. What makes London in particular such a valuable destination to airlines is that it's a top origin and destination for business travelers and business travelers are more likely to purchase costlier business class and last minute tickets. But business travelers tend to also be very scheduled dependent. They want to be away from home for as little time as possible, meaning if their meeting ends at 2pm, they want to be on a 5pm flight home from Heathrow. Large companies that require lots of business travel typically sign corporate contracts with airlines in exchange for reduced fares and increased perks, but according to Delta, these buyers have, quote, repeatedly told Delta its service frequencies and time of day coverage on NYC to LHR are inadequate and have refused to commit business to Delta on the route. The trickiness was that Delta couldn't simply just add more London flights. Heathrow is one of the most heavily slot restricted airports in the world, with just two runways every landing slot is used and demand so severely outstrips supply that these slots sell for tens of millions of dollars. The most valuable slots are the early morning arrival times used by overnight trans-elantic flights, just the type Delta needed, and even if the cost was worth it to them, slots only go up for sale every so often. Alternatively, if Delta formed a joint venture with Virgin, they told the DOT, they could coordinate their schedules to improve time of day coverage. They'd keep the e-spound schedule the same, in that direction times don't matter as much since they're almost all in the evening, but for westbound flights, they'd shift the schedule around to remove competing departure times and help improve coverage across the day so that the longest gap would be the three hours between Virgin's five and 8pm flights. Ultimately, the DOT was compelled by Delta and Virgin's arguments and approved their antitrust immunity wafer, but that approval acted as a tacit admission. If the public benefit for Delta and Virgin's joint venture was the creation of a strong competitor to American and British Airways' joint venture, that must mean that American and British Airways' joint venture created a public detriment. So then, why did the DOT approve American and British Airways' joint venture in 2010? Well, the crux of their argument was that Delta already had their own immunitrust joint ventures and that the formation of their own would make them a stronger competitor. So once again, why did the DOT approve Delta and Air France's joint venture in 2002? Of course, Delta argued that it would make them a stronger competitor to the already approved United Lufthansa joint venture. And why did the DOT approve United and Lufthansa's joint venture all the way back in 1996? Well, that's where things start to make at least slightly more sense. The original vision for transatlantic joint ventures was to expand the hub and spoke network model to both sides of the Atlantic. After deregulation in the 70s and 80s, airlines in the US and Europe reworked their route networks to operate most flights to or from a limited number of hub airports. They'd coordinate their schedules to have a big bank of flights arrive around the same time, then another big bank leave shortly after, so passengers from big cities to small towns could have a huge array of conveniently timed connections. This dramatically increased consumer choice for short haul travel, but it had less of an impact for long haul. United, for example, flew to major European cities like London, Paris, Zurich and Rome. But if you're going to a smaller destination that lacked United Service, Bill Bauer, or Leon, or Stuttgart, you're a bit rough booking your flight with a European airline since they'd offer European side connections onto their short haul flights. But they still left some customers out. If someone was traveling from a smaller US city without service from a European airline to a European destination without service from an American airline, they'd have a harder time getting a fast and cheap itinerary. The idea, through cooperation, was to allow passengers to connect through hubs on both sides, combining the networks of Lufthansa and United, and therefore creating a far larger, far more competitive and convenient network. Today, this partnership has grown into a critical core of the two airlines' businesses. Each morning, eight United Wide Bodies bring well over a thousand passengers into Lufthansa's Frankfurt hub, and the majority of them continue their journey by making their way through the airport's maze of terminals onto another Lufthansa flight. Through cooperation, the German airline has coordinated their schedule to make sure they have well-timed capacity to the destination's popular with US origin passengers, but not otherwise serviced by United, like Stockholm, Vienna, or Istanbul. After all, it's in their interest. Since they pull Transatlantic revenue, they want to be sure that their network offers a better, faster, cheaper itinerary than through Amsterdam, Paris, London, or any other competitors hub. This network integration has unquestionably been a net positive for consumers. It's expanded choice, and even injected more competition into the mix, as now United can compete to European destinations it doesn't directly serve as well. The benefits might even justify the DOT's approval of their antitrust immunity. They might represent the public benefit that outweighs the public harm. If, crucially, the antitrust immunity was what made this public benefit possible, but it's hard to find the evidence of that. United and Lufthansa did not start integrating their networks in 1996, upon approval of their antitrust immunity waiver. They did so in 1993. Passengers from Tampa, Orlando, Philadelphia, New Orleans, and Phoenix could now connect through Dulles Airport onto a flight to Frankfurt, then from Frankfurt to eight German cities in Vienna, and similar arrangements were set up for Chicago and San Francisco. They didn't pull revenue or coordinate pricing, but rather just paid each other for the seats on each other's flights sold as part of the other airlines' itineraries, steering clear of antitrust violations. It was not until three years later that the two airlines applied for antitrust immunity with the argument that it was needed to do the very thing they had already started doing. Now, they made arguments on why they'd be better incentivized to continue to do what they were already doing, but regardless of the truth of that, their antitrust immunity application presents the network integration as the core of the public benefit, the element that is legally required to outweigh the harms of reduced competition. This public benefit, however, was clearly already in the airlines' interests considering they were already implementing it. Further evidence of the feebleness of this so-called public benefit can be found in the present. American has a major partnership with Qatar Airways. American operates flights from Philadelphia to Doha, which is not a route that would normally turn a profit on its own merits, but it's scheduled to arrive at the Middle Eastern hub around 4.30 pm with just enough time for passengers to transfer onto Qatar's 6-9 pm Eastbound bank, and plenty due, thanks to the through-ticketing offered by the carriers. In the inverse, Qatar's US network is formed around Americans network, with flights to most of their hubs, Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago, New York, and Miami. This is a deep partnership. It's now the core of how Americans serve the growing Middle East and India markets while it's the primary way that Qatar expands its reach deeper into the US. What this is not, however, is an antitrust-immunized joint venture. It's got all the public benefits that airlines purport come with antitrust immunity, network integration, schedule coordination, and through-ticketing, while keeping Qatar and American as competitors. For passengers going from, say, Boston to Delhi, the two airlines offer two different itineraries at two different price points. American through New York, Qatar through Doha. With both able to offer one stop itineraries that don't involve the other's flights, they don't offer joint tickets on the route, meaning they must offer better pricing or product to win the customer's business. This is far from the only example of a non-immunized partnership between airlines. United has a near-identical arrangement with Emirates. They operate a New York to-do buy flight to feed onward connections while Emirates operates to most United Hubs to facilitate travel further into the US. Delta has announced a similar arrangement with soon-to-launch ReAD Air. The US airline will operate flights to the New Airlines hub in ReAD, while ReAD Air is expected to serve major Delta hubs. None of these partnerships are antitrust-immunized, all operate nearly identically to immunized partnerships. This wouldn't matter whether or not antitrust-immunity is needed for these partnerships if antitrust-immunity didn't have a downside. But the downside is not hard to find. Italy, for example, is a massive destination for US travelers. From New York, there are plenty of non-stops to the major markets like Milan and Rome. Four genuine competitors fight for business on these routes, and pricing is therefore low. An average of $566 and $486 respectively in the high-demand month of August. Then there are the less competitive routes to smaller markets like Venice, Naples, Bari and Palermo, where two competitors duke it out head to head, but as you'd expect, less competition means pricing power is stronger and airfares are higher. $579, $578, $860, and $819. Between these four, the distinction in pricing can be even further explained by competitive dynamics. In Venice and Naples, it's United versus Delta, true direct competitors. In Bari and Palermo, it's United versus Nios, a small Italian airline with just six long-haul aircraft operating once or twice weekly service. With a limited name recognition in the US, it's hardly a strong competitor to United for US origin traffic, but potentially explaining the higher price point on these routes. Rather than engaging in a price war with Nios, United seems to allow them to eat just a little bit of their lunch as Nios consistently charges a couple hundred dollars less than United on these routes. The sole route without head-to-head competition to Italy, Delta is to Katania, does buck this trend slightly since its average pricing is just $600, but this route does have indirect competition from United, Nios since Palermo is also in Sicily, meaning it likely pulls from a similar pool of passengers. Looking further, the Spanish market demonstrates a similar trend. The most competitive destinations, Barcelona and Madrid, average the lowest, will the least competitive, like Santiago de Compostela, Bilbao, Malaga, and Palma de Maraca are the highest. Taken together, a graph of August airfares to every Italian and Spanish destination from New York demonstrates a clear trend. The exact trend economic theory would predict, though more competition around has, the lower the airfares. What one could infer from this is that when airlines have fewer competitors, they have stronger pricing power, meaning they have greater ability to charge passengers more without losing their business. Therefore, one could infer that over the Atlantic, the diminishment of competitiveness due to antitrust immunity waivers has given airlines more pricing power, leading to higher airfares overall. There's also anecdotal evidence of this. For example, Dublin is only 400 miles or 650 kilometers further from Boston than San Diego. JetBlue flies to both destinations using similarly configured A321 aircraft, but their pricing between the two routes is dramatically different. In August, they're charging an average of $186 for the Transcontinental route, but $476 for the Transatlantic one. Two and a half times more. And even then, JetBlue is the lowest cost operator on this route, perhaps because it's not part of any of the major joint ventures. Delta is charging slightly more at $485, while Air Linga's seats are selling for $536. Now, admittedly, this is imperfect evidence. There are some legitimate additional costs for Transatlantic operations, like e-top certification, taxes and fees, and airlines do use different pricing strategies between domestic and Transatlantic that inflate the cost of one way to Europe, but market-wide, Transatlantic fares are some of the highest-cost long haul routes in the world on a per-mile basis. And airlines will even admit this, at least indirectly. Here's what Tonsa in an investor presentation, touting that Transatlantic is their, quote, core profit pool, and here's British Airways' parent company saying essentially the same thing in a transcript of an investor presentation. This all tracks with economic theory, when there's a lower competition, firms have stronger pricing power, enabling them to command higher profits. And the problem goes beyond the consolidation of these airlines into larger, singular entities, because these larger, singular entities have been able to leverage their dominant market positions to drive genuine competition out of business. Back in the late 2010s, Norwegian Airlines made a play at Long Hall and grew into the largest foreign carrier serving the New York market, and the fifth largest Transatlantic airline outright behind United, Delta, American, and BA. They were operating a low-cost model, severely undercutting their competitors' prices, and therefore severely threatening their supremacy. In particular, it was most threatening to British Airways, since their main base was at London's Gatwick Airport, and so BA's parent company IAG did anything they could to drive the upstart carrier out of business. When Norwegian started Gatwick to New York flights, British Airways launched Gatwick to New York flights, even though the only other Long Hall flights they operated from the airport were to warm weather leisure destinations. When Norwegian started Gatwick to Oakland, California flights, British Airways started Oakland flights, even though they already operated flights to San Francisco airport, a mere 10 miles or 16 kilometers away. When Norwegian started Gatwick to fort-laughter border flights, British Airways started fort-laughter flights, even though they already operated to my army, 20 miles or 32 kilometers away. When Norwegian started Barcelona to Oakland and LA flights, British Airways' parent company IAG started a brand new low-cost airline called Level, and also launched Barcelona to Oakland and LA flights. The tactic here was obvious. IAG was trying to bleed Norwegian dry. They'd match to regions route launches, satrate the market, price tickets aggressively low, take passengers away from Norwegian, and ultimately, the tactic worked. Norwegian's Long Hall operations started to falter in 2019. They reshuffled their network to find routes that could work, but then after a full shutdown due to COVID, the airline's 77s were never reactivated and Norwegian never flew a Long Hall flight again. Unsurprisingly, with the exception of Barcelona to Los Angeles, none of the routes IAG launched a match Norwegian service still operate today, further demonstrating their true intent. Given their scale, it made plenty of sense for IAG to launch and lose money on these routes if it prevented Norwegian from getting a foothold in their key markets. While it's far from a given that Norwegian Long Hall would have survived even without this anti-competitive behavior, IAG's actions demonstrated that they were genuinely threatened, and they did not consider it a given that Norwegian Long Hall would die out on its own. It's really hard to understand American and European regulators' logic behind antitrust immunity over the Atlantic. The public-facing logic is clearly faulty, but even if one attempts to read between the lines, there's little logic there either. It's possible that it was just a genuine mistake. That initial approvals in the 90s happened in the tumultuous time following deregulation when consequences were less understood, and stability in air service was a higher priority. But that mistake has snowballed. In recent years, the dominant logic behind approvals is that that's the way it's always been done. Regulators appear to be blindly improving more and more antitrust immunity waivers so long as collusion mirrors the structure of existing collusion. They don't want to rock the boat, but by avoiding so, they're helping the consumers lose out. The very people they're there to serve. They're helping airlines charge more, making it slightly less accessible for everyone to hop across the pond. Okay, so now I have a very real, slightly embarrassing story to tell as part of this adry. Basically, the sponsor for this video is Rocket Money, which I'd never actually used, but to try the mountain, figure out whether I should endorse them, I downloaded the app and linked my banking credit card accounts. Admittedly, I'm not always very on top of my finances. I'm fortunate enough to have enough savings that I don't need to keep track of every expense, but I'd also sort of noticed recently that my account balance was getting lower than usual. I didn't think I was spending more or making less than normal, so I was a bit confused, but I didn't really look into it. But when trying out Rocket Money, I poked around and went to their recurring payments tab, where they show you all the recurring payments you make, and that's where I noticed something weird. Basically, my two biggest recurring payments each month were to the account of the bank that I have my mortgage with. I only used that account for the mortgage, so I only sent enough to make the mortgage payment each month. But I only paid my mortgage once a month, and this auto transfer was happening twice a month. Basically, it turns out that about six months ago, I somehow accidentally duplicated the auto transfer, and extra money had been accumulating in this other bank account. Ultimately, this worked out pretty well since I was sending the extra money to myself, but there were also plenty of other smaller subscriptions in there that I didn't realize it was still paying, so I was able to cut back on about $100 just spending a month. As you imagine, since Rocket Money immediately proved itself, I'm now a legitimate user, and there's more than just the recurring payments feature that I find worthwhile. I love their automated spending reports as it makes it super simple for me to see where I'm spending too much money. Unsurprisingly, it's on travel. They also help you reach your goals as you can set a budget, then use the app to track your progress sticking to it through time. There are so many more features beyond that, but all in all, I've already found Rocket Money to be a really useful, really simple way to stay more on top of my finances with basically no work at all. So take control of your finances today. Click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started for free.