Just let me know. Right about here in Dallas, Texas, American President John F. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963. The accused assassin was a man named Lee Harvey Oswald. After being held in custody for less than two days, Oswald himself would meet the violent end. According to a subsequent investigation, Oswald had fired three rounds from the Texas school looked upon story. Police recovered three shell casings and a bolt-action rifle from the sixth floor of the building. But the shooting of Oswald sparked immediate suspicions of conspiracy. Oswald's death persists to this day and have driven most Americans to reject the government's conclusion that Oswald acted alone. The arguments for and against conspiracy take many shapes and forms. Far too many in fact to do the maljustice in a single video. Instead, in this video, I want to zoom in and focus on a very narrow slice of this case. Specifically, the events surrounding the Texas Schoolbook Depart Story. What exactly happened inside this building from where the shots that killed the president are believed to have been fired? In September of 1963, a young man named Wesley Frazier received a call from an employment agency. There was a potential job opening at the Texas Schoolbook Depart Story. On September 13, Frazier made his way from Irving Texas, down to Central Dallas. He met with Roy Troulee, the superintendent of the building and was hired on the spot. Back in Irving, Frazier lived with his older sister, the new Randall. A few houses to the street lived a woman named Ruth Payne. On October 14, both Randall and Payne had a cup of coffee at the house of a neighbor. Payne brought along a friend and Russian immigrant named Marina Oswald, the wife of Leoswald. Marina could barely speak in English and had been staying with Payne for a few weeks, partly due to her husband's unemployment. The subject of Lee looking for work and that he hadn't found work for a week came up while we were having coffee. And Mrs. Randall mentioned that her younger brother, Wesley Frazier, thought they needed another person at the Texas Schoolbook Depository where Wesley worked. Payne and Marina returned home, spoke with Roy Troulee over the phone and secured a job at the view on behalf of Leoswald. The following morning, he went down to the book depository and began his first day of work on October 16. So in acquaintance with whom Oswald's wife was currently staying, had a casual conversation with a neighbor. That neighbor happened to have a brother who recently got employed at the book depository. This prompt that his wife to ask the acquaintance to call the superintendent of the building to inquire about the new vacancies. I told Mrs. Payne that to send Oswald down and I would talk to him that I didn't have anything in mind for him of a permanent nature, but if he was suited, we could possibly use him for a brief time. The position was not only temporary, but only existed due to a temporary shortage of staff. It was the end of our fall rush. If it hadn't existed a week or two weeks longer, or if we had not been using some of our regular boys putting down this plywood floor, we would not have had any need for the Lee Oswald at that time, which is a tragic thing for me to think about. But it gets even more tragic because Oswald was not the only one to apply for a job. I might have sent Oswald to work in a warehouse two blocks away. Oswald and another fellow reported for work on the same day, and I needed one of them for the depository building. I picked Oswald. If Oswald was somehow entangled in a conspiracy, and the aim of that conspiracy was for him to become employed at the Booktapal story, this roundabout sequence of events is a very strange way to go about it. As the name implies, the Texas School Booktapal story was in the business of selling books. For about 25 an hour, Oswald's job was to prepare the books for shipping. He did so by filling out forms and transporting cartons of books between the upper floors and the first. The building had three elevators, two staircases, and was seven stories tall. In the northwest corner, one stairway and two freight elevators provided access to all seven floors. A small passenger elevator near the front entrance stopped at level four, while stories one and two were connected by a second flight of stairs. Lacking a driver's license, Oswald relied on Wesley Frazier to carpool between Irving and Dallas every Friday evening and Monday morning. He spent work days at the Rooming House in Dallas while spending the weekends with his wife and daughters in Irving. But on Thursday morning, November 21st, the day before the assassination, Oswald decided to deviate from this routine. I was standing there on the first floor, getting orders in, and Lee said, could I ride home with you this afternoon? And I said, sure, you know, like I told you, you can go home with me anytime you want to. Like I say, anytime you want to go see your wife, that is all right with me. Lee had never gone home in the middle of the week before, so I asked him why and he stated that he was going home to get some curtain rods for his apartment. I asked if he was going home on Friday as well and he said no. Frazier drove Oswald back to Irving where he arrived unannounced at the House of the Roothpain. Both Pain and Marina were surprised to see Oswald on a Thursday. They assumed he'd come to make a man's with Marina due to an argument he had had a few days before. Did your husband give any reason for coming home on Thursday? He said that he was lonely because he hadn't come the preceding weekend and he wanted to make his peace with me. Was anything set about curtain rods or his taking curtain rods to town the following day? No, I didn't have any. He didn't say anything like that. No. Next day Oswald said goodbye to his wife and left the Pain residence about a quarter past seven. A top-adresser in the bedroom, he left behind his wedding ring. Oswald was next seen walking down the street by Lini Randall carrying a package. He was soon joined by Frazier and the two of them took a seat in his car to begin their commute. When you got in the car, did you say anything to Oswald or did he say anything to you? I noticed there was a package lying on the back seat. I didn't pay too much attention and I said, what's the package? He said curtain rods and I said, oh yes, you told me you were going to bring some today. Not only was Oswald carrying a large package, but he'd forgotten to bring a lunch bag. When he rode with me, I say he always brought lunch, except that one day on November 22. He didn't bring his lunch that day. Right when I got in the car, I asked him where was his lunch and he said he was going to buy his lunch that day. They arrived in Dallas a few minutes before 8 o'clock. Typically they would walk together from the parking lot to the book the past or, but on this particular Friday, Oswald grabbed his curtain rods and rushed ahead into the building. Working on the ground floor in the view of the rear entrance was their colleague Jack Doherty. Did you see Oswald come to work that morning? Yes, when he first came into the door. Did he have anything in his hands or arms? Well, not that I could see of. Frasier and Doherty are the only two people known to have seen Oswald entering the building. Frasier says he was carrying a package. Doherty says he was not. Contradictions like this one will become a recurring theme throughout the rest of this video. We'll take a closer look at the missing curtain rods in a later chapter, but for now, let's stay with Oswald. As the morning progressed, Oswald was seen working as normal. Roy Troully described him as an above-average worker who mostly kept himself. In fact, he was a bit of a mystery to his colleagues. On the way back and forth between Irving and Dallas, did you talk very much to each other? No sir, not very much. He was one of these tops that just didn't talk. I was acquainted with Lee Oswald during the time he was employed at the book depository, but I never did get to know him well. He did not mix with the other employees and did not appear to want to make friends with me or any of the others. Did you ever speak to Oswald? Yes, sir. Did he ever speak to you? No, sir. He never replied to you. No, sir. Would you say he was unfriendly? Yes, sir. But there were exceptions to his reticence and one of them occurred on this Friday morning. James Jarman was working on the ground floor when he observed Oswald staring at the window facing Elm Street. Oswald was standing up in the window and I went to the window also and he asked me, what were people gathering around the corner for? And I told him that the president was supposed to pass in the morning and he asked me that I know which way he was coming. And I told him, yes, he'll probably come down main and turn on Houston and then back again on Elm. Then he said, oh, I see. And that was all. It's a brief yet fascinating moment. It almost seems as though Oswald had no idea that Kennedy would pass by the book to Paul Story. This wasn't the case for some of his colleagues. Jarman himself had only been made aware of the fact shortly before he spoke with Oswald. There's no doubt that Oswald knew the president was coming to Dallas but whether he knew the route of the Motocate is much more difficult to prove. The route of the Motocate had only been finalized a few days before the visit and hinged upon its destination. Kennedy was supposed to attend a banquet in Dallas but no one could agree on a venue. It came down to two options, the trademark north west of downtown, or the women's building to the east. One of the more vocal proponents of the trademark was Texas Governor John Connolly and after much back and forth he finally got his way on November 14th. As the women's building been selected the Motocate would have sped through the Laplaza east on Main Street significantly further away and perpendicular to the book to Paul Story. Not to mention that First Lady Jacqueline would have been seated between the building and the president. The selection of the trademark meant that the Motocate would now head west on Main Street and make these turns through the Laplaza to reach the northbound lanes on the freeway. Now these turns could still have been avoided had the Motocate continued like so and not taken the freeway but since the freeway was the more scenic and expedient route it was the more attractive choice. All of that is to say the success of the assassination was largely dependent upon the selection of the trademark. It might therefore be tempting to cast suspicion upon Governor Connolly but it should be noted that he rode in the presidential limousine along with the Kennedys and suffered grave injuries during the shooting. Not only that but Connolly was actually opposed to a Motocate and favored a more direct route from the airport to the trademark. A brief trip that would have bypassed the Laplaza altogether. He was unfortunately overruled by Kennedys himself he wanted to see and be seen by the people of Dallas. Ok so all that was happening behind the scenes but as far as the public was aware there wasn't even going to be a Motocate. As late as November 15th the Dallas Morning News reported that the Motocate seemed unlikely. But the very next day the parade was finally confirmed. While the precise route followed by maps and detailed descriptions was not officially disclosed until November 19th someone familiar with Dallas could have approximated the route a few days in advance. That is to say the earliest point a member of the public could have deduced that Kennedy would be driven past the book to Paul's story was November 16th, less than a week before the visit. There's a good chance that Oswald saw these articles because he'd been observed reading political columns in the very same newspapers. Furthermore we know from other aspects of Oswald's life that he was politically inclined. Well there's a great deal of difference. Several American parties in several countries are based on Marxism such as Giana, Giana. Certain countries have characteristics of a socialist system such as Great Britain with its socialized medicine. These then are the differences between an outright communist country and countries which are here to left us on Marxist principles. Conversely a lack of interest in politics is precisely might least one of Oswald's colleagues remained oblivious to the motocade. So while it's understandable for someone apolitical to be taken of guard by a presidential visit it makes far less sense for some like Oswald. On November 21st the day before the assassination that you were describing was there any discussion between you and your husband about President Kennedy's trip or proposed trip to Texas, Dallas and the Fort Worth area? I asked a lee whether he knew where the president would speak and told him that I would very much like to hear him and to see him. I asked him how this could be done but he said he didn't know how to do that and didn't enlarge any further on the subject. This was also somewhat unusual. His lack of desire to talk about that subject any further. How did you think it was unusual could you explain that? The fact that he didn't talk a lot about it. He merely gave me said something as an answer and did not have any further comments. Do you mean by that usually he would discuss a matter of that kind and show considerable interest? Yes of course. He would have told me who would be there and where this would take place. Well never know what Oswald was thinking when he spoke with James Jarman shortly before the assassination. But it is worth repeating though that Oswald was hired on October 15th. This is a full month before the motel get out had been decided let alone announced to the public. On the morning of November 22nd a handful of employees have been assigned to install a new plywood floor on the sixth floor of the book The Paul Story. He wants in a while they would catch a glimpse of Oswald. Shortly before noon it was time for lunch. For a bit of fun they decided to raise the two elevators down to ground level. As they began descending they observed Oswald now standing on the fifth floor. He shouted for them to stop or to close the gate to the elevator upon reaching the first floor. Charles Givens then realized he'd forgotten his jacket and cigarettes up on the sixth floor. About to return to ground level Givens spotted Oswald approaching. Lee was coming from the window of front where the shots were fired from. Did you watch where he walked to? Well no sir I didn't pay much attention. I was getting ready to get on the elevator and I say, boy are you going downstairs? What did he say to you? I say it's near lunch time and he said no sir when you get downstairs close the gate to the elevator that meant the elevator on the west side. You can pull both gates down and it'll come up by itself. What else did he say? That is all I said okay and got on the elevator. And with that Givens became the last person inside the book to Paul's story known to have seen Oswald before the assassination. At least that's the official story. The encounter was fixed at 1155 more than half an hour before the shooting but other employees claimed to have seen Oswald in other parts of the building around the same time or even later than Givens. Givens himself provided conflicting accounts. I'm getting ahead of myself. This encounter dealt with standing Givens was not the last person to visit the 6th floor. Shortly after Givens had left, Bonnie Williams grabbed his lunch and went upstairs. Is that down right about here to wait the president's arrival? Now when you were sitting by the window could you see down towards the southeast corner? No sir I couldn't see anything as I remember there. About the only thing that I could see from there would be the top edge of the window because of boxes was decked up. Did you see anyone else up there that day? No I did not. The southeast corner is the location from where the shots that kill the president are believed have been fired. The so-called sniper's nest. Williams says he was alone but admits his view was obstructed by tall stacks of boxes. Meanwhile down by the main entrance someone was attempting to gain access to the building. I met an elderly white man at the entrance of the building who asked me to direct him to a restroom. The man was very old and feeble and could hardly make it up the stairs. About five minutes later I saw this man leave the building and enter an old Buick automobile with three elderly white women. The Buick then drove away. Did you see him talk to anyone in the building? No he went straight out. This individual was never identified and is the only unknown person known to have entered the book to pass through before the shoot. After finishing his lunch up on the sixth floor, Bonnie Williams heard the voices of James Jarman and Harold Norman emanating from the floor below. Feeling a bit lonely Williams went down to the fifth floor and joined his two colleagues. The exact time of Williams departure is unclear but he was likely no more than ten or even five minutes before the shoot. On the grounds below a sea of spectators lined the streets of Elmen Houston. Every once in a while one of them would glance up at the book to pass through. Indeed Jarman, Williams and Norman responded on multiple occasions, leaning at the far east windows on the fifth floor. But movement could also be seen on the floor above them. A floor that, by all accounts, was now supposed to be empty. A waiting the motorcade by the east curb of Houston was a young newlywed couple named Arnold and Barbara Roland. Some fifteen minutes before the shooting Arnold spotted a white man in the westmost window on the sixth floor of the book to pass through. The man was holding a rifle. His gaze locked at Houston. Despite standing a few meters away from an officer, Arnold chose not to report the gunman. The man opened windows on top of the buildings with rifles. This is how my opinion was based and why I didn't alarm me. Perhaps if I had been older and had more experience in life, it might have made a difference. It very well could have. Do you ever have reoccurring dreams, sir? What? Do you ever have reoccurring dreams? Yes. This is a reoccurring dream of mine, sir, all the time. What if I told someone about it? I knew about it in an open advance and perhaps it could have been prevented. I mean, this is something which shakes me up at times. If Roland's recollection is accurate, it stands in direct conflict with Atavpani Williams, who claimed to be the lunch on the same floor at the same time. Williams neither saw nor heard anyone despite having an unobstructed view down to the southwest corner of the building where Roland claimed to have seen the gunman. A few minutes later, a different spectator named Howard Brennan spotted a white man pacing to and fro the eastmost window on the 6th floor. At half past 12, the presidential emcee emerged from behind the building and began driving north on Houston. As the car made a sharp left turn at Elm, a high school student named Amos Uens glanced up at the book The Paul Story and caught sight of a protruding metal wall. Few realized what had happened, was it a firecracker, backfiring motorcycle or presidential salute. People near the Roland's even started laughing, perhaps feeling a bit foolish for being frightened by the ostensibly harmless explosion. Standing by the northwest corner of Elm in Houston was James Whirl. He thought the explosion had come from directly overhead. Sure enough, on one of the upper floors, Whirl could see the barrel of a gun. At that moment, a second explosion echoed through Debe Plaza. Whirl and Uens witnessed a recoil and muscle flash of the rifle in concurrence with the sound. Brennan had yet to realize what was happening, he thought a firecracker had been thrown from the book The Paul Story. He looked up and the man he'd seen pacing all the minutes before was now aiming down the sights of a rifle. Brennan could only recall hearing two shots, but his testimony implies he might have heard three. He confusingly said he saw the gun and fired the last shot, yet denied seeing the discharge of the rifle. In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, the rifle was seen by a handful of witnesses as the gunman cautiously withdrew from the window. The rifle, or what, looked like a rifle, was drawn fairly slowly back into the building. And I saw no one in the window with it. I didn't even see a form in the window. I could see his hand, you know, the rifle laying across his hand, and I could see his hand sticking out on a trigger port. But he got through, he just pulled it back into the window. He drew the gun back from the window as though he was drawing it back to his side and maybe Paul's for another second, as though to assure himself that he had his mark and then he disappeared. Now the UN's New World saw the face of the gunman and could thus offer little to no information regarding his appearance. Arnold was quite some distance away, yet furnished a basic description of the man he'd seen about a quarter of an hour before the shooting, a description that was quite similar to the one provided by Brandon, who got the best look at the gunman. Taken together, these accounts paint a picture of an assassin on this sixth floor of the book to Paul's story, taking aim with the rifle and firing at the precedent from the sniper's nest. But other accounts leave room for a bit of doubt. As previously mentioned, Arnold Roland spotted a white man with a rifle in the westmost window on the sixth floor about a quarter past 12, but as late as five minutes before the shooting, Arnold observed an elderly black man leaning out the eastmost window on the same floor. He might have confused the sixth floor with a fifth, where James Jarman, Bonnie Williams and Harold Norman didn't eat lean out the windows. In fact they were the only black employees known to watch the mouth decayed from a floor above the first, except they could hardly be described as elderly. But then take a listen to this. This question was then repeated Arnold a few minutes later, at which point his answer had dramatically changed. He was very thin and elderly gentleman, bald or practically bald, very thin hair if he wasn't bald. Had on a plaid shirt, I think it was red and green, very bright color, that is why I remember it. Can you give us an estimate as to age? 50, possibly 55 or 60. Can you give us an estimate as to height? 5, 8, 5, 10 in that neighborhood. He was very slender, very thin. Can you give us a more definite description as to complexion? Very dark or fairly dark. Not real dark compared to some black man, but fairly dark. Seems like his face was either, I can't recall detail, but it was either very wrinkled or marked in some way. So in the span of a few minutes, Arnold went from, I didn't pay very much attention to describing the man's complexion, hair, clothing, age, height, build and even the blemishes on his face. Sometimes some people are prone to exaggerate more than others, and without in any way meaning to take away from the testimony of your husband as to what he saw in the building at the time. Just from your general experience, do you feel you can rely on everything that your husband says? I don't feel that I can rely on everything anybody says. Well, this is really an unfair question for me to ask any wife about her husband, and I am not asking it very correctly, but... At times, my husband is prone to exaggerate, does that answer it? I think it does. Is there anything else you want to add to that or not? Usually, his exaggerations are not concerned with anything other than himself. They're usually to boost his ego. They usually say that he is really smarter than he is, or he's a better salesman than he is, something like that. As leading as that line of questioning was, Barbara was not alone in doubting her husband's credibility. Officials at two separate high schools attended by Arnold explicitly warned authorities not to trust everything he says. He was characterized as someone who would not hesitate to fabricate a story and not tell the truth regarding any matter, indeed rolled and lied or exaggerated on multiple occasions when he testified. Another witness who claimed to have seen a gunman in the book to Paul's story was Carolyn Walter. Shortly before the arrival of the motogade, Walter had seen a man with blonde or light brown hair in one of these windows on the fourth of fifth floor. She explicitly ruled out the sixth. It should be noted, however, that during the shooting, this window was closed with the blinds down, while this one, as you already know, was occupied by Bonnie Williams and Harold Norman. In any case, the light-haired man seen by Walter was holding a machine gun, and standing beside him was another man wearing a brown suit. Much like Arnold Rowland, Walter assumed the gunman was a presidential guard and refrained from telling the police. In fact, there's no evidence she told anyone of what she'd seen, not even the colleague with whom she watched him out the gate. Then Walter's defense, two other witnesses, were calling a man with light or light brown hair on the fifth or sixth floor, except they never saw weapon nor an accomplice. This agreements regarding the floors were at least in part due to the ground floor lacking visible windows. How do you know it was the sixth floor, sixth floor rather than the fifth floor? I will with you if beyond I showed him the window and I didn't count the bottom floor. You mean the first time you get a statement, you didn't count the bottom floor? That's right. Another source of confusion was the distinct visual difference between the seventh floor and the ones below. When you first glance at the building, you're thrown off a little less to the floors because there's a ridge. It almost looked like a structure added onto the top of the building, about one story above, so you have to recount. Not only that, but multiple witnesses described this sixth floor as the second floor from the top, but in the chaos that ensued, it seems the tail end of that sentence was not always recorded. Aime's UN's is another curious witness because even though he never saw the gunman's face, he did see the top of his head somehow. Oswald did not have a ball spot. He was thinning a bit in the front, but otherwise had a full head of hair. But the strength of UN's account is somewhat diminished by his inability to recall much of anything else. Long after the assassination, 15 years to be precise, a journalist working for the Dallas Morning News tracked on a man named Johnny Powell. Powell had supposedly seen two men fiddling with a scope on a rifle in the sniper's nest. He described their complexion as darker than white, but that was about it. Once again, one has to wonder if he confused the gunman with German, Williams and Norman on the floor below. I mean, after 15 years of silence, there's no telling a Powell's memory could have been distorted. A good example of such distortion is Richard Carr. A few minutes before the shooting, Carr had been standing roughly here when he spotted a man on the seventh floor of the book, the Paul story, all the way over here. The man was white and wore a hat, glasses and sport coat. In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, Carr returned to ground level and conceded what he believed to be the same man, now trotting South and Houston. He made a left turn right about here before being picked up by a station wagon. By 1969, however, Carr's story had notably changed. The man with a sport coat had now been standing on the fifth floor, not the seventh. After the shooting, Mr. Sportcoat had emerged from behind the book to Paul's story, accompanied by two other men. They, too, had been picked up by a separate station wagon before speeding away. It's unclear how Carr, as opposed to have seen all of this, considering what he told the FBI back in 64. Carr advised that from his location on the steel structure of the new courthouse building, it would have been impossible for him to observe the lower floors and entrance of the book to Pository, and that from his position he could only see the top floor on the roof. In Carr's defense, James Whirl had seen a man emerge from the rear entrance of the book to Paul's story about three minutes after the shooting. This man also wore a sport coat and had itself in Houston. Except the man seen by Carr was kind of stalky and wore a hat. While the man seen by Whirl had a slender build and was hadless. Besides anyone connected with the shooting, leaving via the rear entrance, would surely have headed north, not towards the scene of the crime. As if that was not enough to other witnesses, James Rohmack and George Rackley stood roughly here for several minutes after the shooting. Both of them paid special attention to the rear entrance of the building. Mr. Rohmack stated that from the time he heard the shots, he had looked toward the book to Pository and had, under his immediate observation, the loading dock and the back door. He stated he is positive that no one came out of the store or out of the loading dock doors. Could you see the back door of the Texas School Books to Pository? Yes. Were you looking towards that direction? Yes, sir. About how long did you keep your eyes fixed over there? Oh, I would say five minutes anyhow, probably ten. I was looking up that way at all times. Did you see any people leave the Texas School Book to Pository by way of the rear exit? No, sir. Did you see any people running north on Houston Street? No, sir. Unfortunately, conflicting accounts were not limited to the book to Pository. Among the hundreds of witnesses and the vicinity of Deely Plaza, nothing was as disputed as the number and origin of the gunshots. The governor Conny was holding his stomach and the shots were almost simultaneously worth it. Yes, sir. They were probably ten seconds apart. They were probably the third shot. I didn't hear it. I don't recall the third shot. There may have been. We hit my family, hit the ground, and I don't recall the third shot. I'm not certain of that. I do know I heard two shots. I heard three. I know three. I said to Jerry after the second shot, I said, my god, those are gunshots. No one knows exactly how many spectators were in or needily Plaza at the time of the assassination. Well over 200 were at some point questioned by a combination of authorities, journalists, and others. Atoms have it made to consolidate the various accounts and it's clear from all such attempts that the majority of witnesses heard three shots. What's a bit less clear is these source of the explosions. The gunman was either placed in a vicinity of the book to Pository, marked here in Red, or an area west of the building marked in green known as the Grassy Null. But as you can see from these pie charts, the assessment of ear witness testimony is highly susceptible to bias. It's a surprisingly subjective exercise that can lead to widely different results. Nevertheless, there were a substantial number of witnesses who pointed to the Grassy Null located roughly here and many of them were scattered throughout the Plaza. To give you some examples, August Campbell was standing near the front entrance of the book to Pository yet believed the shots had come from the Grassy Null. Meanwhile, Marilyn Sitzman was standing on the Grassy Null yet believed the shots had come from the book to Pository. Standing beside Campbell was a woman named Geraldine Reed who believed the shots had come from the book to Pository. Standing by the curb in front of Sitzman was William Newman who believed the shots had come from the Grassy Null. One might therefore conclude that there must have been two assassins, one in the book to Pository and one of the Grassy Null. And the countless authors and even a congressional investigation have done precisely that. Now this scope of this video is not nearly exhaustive enough for me to attempt any conclusions regarding a second gunman, but I do want to leave you with this. You might have seen these unlabeled blue slices before. Well, that's how many witnesses heard gunshots coming from multiple directions. That is to say, next to no one did. All the shots came either from the east or west, not both. Mr. Campbell believed the noise came from away from the book to Pository. The solution he explained may have been due to the sound bouncing off the building and other objects in the vicinity. Orcas Campbell was far from alone and being deceived by the pronounced echoes of the gunshots. Where did the noises or shots sound to you like they came from? It was hard to tell because they had an echo, you know. There was actually two explosions with each one. There was the shot and then the echo from it. So it was hard to tell. There was too much reverberation. There was an echo which gave me a sound all over. In other words, that square is kind of, it had a sound all over. The sounds came either from up against the school to Pository building or near the mouth of the triple underpass. I had worked in this watch tower for some 10 or 12 years and was there during the time they were renovating the school to Pository building and had noticed at that time the similarity sounds occurring in either of those two locations. There is a reverberation which takes place from either location. This auditory illusion was not a fluke, not only did the building surrounding Dele Plassa act as an echo chamber, but even experienced hunters can struggle to pinpoint the number and origin of gunshots by sound alone. Here's a quote from a book on that very topic published a few years before the assassination. Little Creedons should be put in what anyone says about a shot or even the number of shots. These things coming upon a person suddenly are generally extremely inaccurately recorded in their memory. One of the authors asked, one deer hunter last fall, how many shots another hunter less than a hundred yards away had fired? The answer was five. Actually only two shots were fired. Employees in the book, the past story were no less confused about the gunshots than the spectators outside. To give you some examples, on the first floor Eddie Piper heard three shots that appeared to come from inside the building. On the third floor Edna Case and Sandra Ellison heard nothing. Meanwhile Steven Wilson on the same floor heard three shots came from the west. On the fourth floor, Elsie Dorman, multiple shots came from this building across the street. Victoria Adams, three shots from the west. Mary Hollis, three shots inside the building. But some employees not only heard the shots but could literally feel the explosions shake the building. Could you tell where the shots were coming from? Yes sir, they came from inside the building. How do you know that? Because the building vibrated from the result of the explosion coming in. Did you know they were shot at the time? Yes sir, they sounded almost like cannon shots. They were so terrific. Much like Geneva Hine on the second floor, Bonnie Williams could feel the explosions up on the fifth. It sounded to Williams as though the shots had been fired from the floor above. Its colleague James Jarman initially thought the shots had come from somewhere below but then changed his mind and agreed with Williams. Here with Norman meanwhile, heard far more than gunshots. Just after the president passed by, I heard a shot. And several seconds later, I heard two more shots. I knew that the shots had come from directly above me and I could hit the expended cartridges fall to the floor. I could also hit a bolt action of the rifle. The explosions shook the building and a piece of loose plaster or dirt must dislaunch from the legs above and struck Williams in the head. Meanwhile, spectators on the streets below could see them leaning out the windows, looking up at the sixth floor. I just looked straight up ahead of me, which would have been looking at the schoolbook depository. And I noticed two black men in a window straining to see directly above them. And my eyes followed right up to the window above them and I saw the rifle or what looked like a rifle. Written and somewhat entranced by the pandemonium outside, the three men remain on the fifth floor for several minutes. Meanwhile, the apparent assassin upstairs was now in a race against time. Did you hear anything upstairs at all? No sir, I didn't hear anything. Any footsteps? No sir, probably. The reason we didn't hear anything is because you know after the shots, we were running too and that was making a lot of noise. Why didn't you go up to the sixth floor? I really don't know. We just never did think about it. Maybe it's because we were frightened. When the shooting began, motorcycle policemen Marion Baker had just made a right turn from Main Street to Houston. Baker recognized explosions as gunfire and could see a flock of pigeons fluttering above two buildings further up ahead. Baker made a split second decision and headed for the book to Paul's story. Once inside, he was greeted by Roy Troulee. Troulee directed Baker to the elevators but neither was available. He pressed the button while shouting up the elevator shaft for someone upstairs to close the gate. No response. Instead, they began running up the stairs. As I came out to the second floor there, Mr. Troulee was ahead of me and as I come out, I was kind of scanning, you know, the rooms and I caught a glimpse of this man walking away from this. I have been to this window in this door. I don't know how come I saw him but I had a glimpse of him coming down there. Where was he coming from? No, sir. All I've seen of him was a glimpse of him going away from me. What did you do? I hollered at him at that time and said, come here. He turned and walked right straight back to me. What did you say to him? I didn't get anything out of him. Mr. Troulee had come up to my side here and I turned to Mr. Troulee and I said, do you know this man? Does he work here? And he said, yes, and I turned immediately and went on out up the stairs. The man whom Baker and Troulee encountered in the second floor lunchroom was none other than Lee Harvey Oswald. The encounter was brief, lasting no more than 30 seconds. Oswald appeared calm and failed to evoke suspicion so Troulee and Baker left him in the lunchroom and proceeded up the stairs. They spent some time searching the roof but there was no assassin to be found. One by the main entrance, Geraldine Reed was still trying to process what had just occurred. She decided to return to her office on the second floor of the building. Here about two minutes after the shooting, Reed became the last known person to have seen Oswald inside the booktapal story. I kept walking and I looked up and Oswald was coming in the back door of the office. I met him by the time I passed my desk by several feet and I told him, I said, oh, the president has been shot. But maybe they didn't hit him. He mumbled something to me. I kept walking. He did too. I didn't pay any attention to what he said because I had no thoughts of him having any connection with the shooting at all because he was very calm. Oswald is then presumed to have taken the front stairs and on his way out the main entrance encountered someone looking for a phone. There are at least two candidates for who this person might have been but Oswald seems to have pointed out the phone inside the building before blending into the chaos outside. He was next observed, boarding a bus. A few blocks east and now. Nearly four months after the assassination, Trullian Baker participated in a crude reconstruction of the shooting to time their movements. The experiment was repeated twice. On the first attempt, it took them one minute and thirty seconds to reach the second floor lunchroom. Then one minute and fifteen seconds. This time trials were primarily conducted to determine whether Oswald could have fired the shots from the sixth floor and still made it down to the second in time-freshing counter with Trullian Baker. After all, if there wasn't enough time, Oswald could not have been the assassin. A bunch of different routes were tested and while Oswald could theoretically have taken one of the elevators or even the fire escape, in practice, there wasn't enough time. You do not think the assassin used any of the elevators at any time to get from the sixth to the second floor. You mean after the shooting? No sir, he just could not because those elevators, I saw myself, were both on the fifth floor. They were both even. The only other means of descent was to stay away. A standing and further gunman trotted down from the sixth floor to the second in one minute and eighteen seconds. Then, they slightly fast-paced in one minute and fourteen seconds. There was just enough time. It's therefore possible that Oswald stopped on the second floor, perhaps upon hearing Trullian shouting up the elevator shaft and attempted to hide in the lunchroom near seconds ahead of Trullian Baker's arrival. But it's not quite that simple because Oswald was not the only person using the stairway to escape the building. As previously mentioned, Victoria Adams watched a motricade from an office on the fourth floor of the booktipal story. Within thirty seconds of the shooting, Adams ran down the stairs to the first floor, along with her colleague, Sandra Stiles. When you got to the bottom of the first floor, did you see anyone there as you entered the first floor from the stairway? Yes, sir. Who did you see? Mr. William Shelley and Billy Love Lady? Now, what did you do after you encountered Mr. Shelley and Mr. Love Lady? I said I believed the president was shot. Do you remember what they said? Nothing. Then what did you do? I proceeded out to the Houston Street dock. There are two significant problems with Adams' account. The first being that she and Stiles supposedly left the fourth floor within thirty seconds of the shooting and then ran down the stairs to the first. This would place him in an approximate sync with Oswald, descending from the sixth floor to the second. Now, as you were running down the stairs, did you encounter anyone? Not during the actual running down the stairs. No, sir. Did you hear anyone using the stairs? No, sir. But okay, perhaps Oswald was a few flights above and his footsteps were ground out by their own. This would mean that Stiles and Adams left the fourth floor near seconds ahead of Oswald's arrival, reached the ground floor near seconds ahead of Roy Troulee and Mary and Baker's assent, before encountering William Shelley and Billy Love Lady right about here. But this is when problem number two makes an entrance. When the president was shot, Shelley and Love Lady stood on the front steps of the book at the Paul story. They spent several minutes roaming about outside before returning to the building. And as the problem, how did Stiles and Adams encounter Shelley and Love Lady within seconds of the shooting if it took them several minutes to return to the building? Where was the girl? I don't remember what place she was, but I remember seeing a girl and she was talking to Shelley or saw Shelley or something. Shelley could recall no such incident. Presuming that Love Lady was correct and Shelley had a lapse of memory, it's possible they're encounter with Stiles and Adams to current minutes rather than seconds after the shooting. After all, Adams could have been mistaken. This scenario implies that all schooled made his escape. Troulee and Baker went upstairs and then several minutes later, Stiles and Adams left the building. But it's not quite that simple. Watching the motel get alongside Stiles and Adams was their supervisor, Dorothy Garner. Miss Garner stated this morning that after Miss Adams went downstairs, she, Miss Garner, saw Mr. Troulee and the policeman come up. But only this account corroborate that of Adams, meaning they left within seconds not minutes, but it implies that Garner was in a position to observe the stairway from somewhere on the fourth floor. In spite of this, Garner made no mention of seeing Oswald scampering down the stairs, between Stiles and Adams departure and Troulee and Baker's arrival. What makes this conflict so difficult to resolve is that neither Stiles nor Garner were called to testify. We have but a few brief statements of what they witnessed. All we know about Stiles is that she went downstairs with Adams. Did it happen within seconds of the shooting? We don't know. Did G see or hear anyone else while running down the stairs? We don't know. Did G encounter Shelly in love later on the first floor? We don't know. Authorities appear to have presumed Adams unreliable and then ignore the witnesses who could have easily refuted or confirmed that presumption. A simple reenactment like the one granted Troulee and Baker could have gone a long way to resolve this issue. But that never happened. Many decades after the assassination, author Barry Ernest was able to track down Stiles, Dorothy Garner and Victoria Adams. Stiles confirmed that she and Adams left the window within seconds of the shooting, but she doesn't explicitly say they left the fourth floor within seconds. In an case as they moved quickly down the stairs, she heard no footfall apart from their own. Garner confirmed she never witnessed the descent of Oswald, despite seeing Troulee and Baker heading upstairs. Adams went a bit further and accused investigators of tampering with her testimally. I'm beginning to wonder if the Shelly and Love Lady encounter was inserted into my testimony later. I remember saying to a fairly big black man inside the building, right near the loading dock, right after I got down the stairs, that I thought the president may have been shot. The rest of Stiles apparently told Oranist something similar. The only black employees who could have possibly made it to the rear stairway in time were Carl Jones, Roy Lewis, Eddie Piper and Troy West. What you see here are their approximate positions at the time of the shooting, but during the seconds and minutes that followed, only Piper's known to have paid any attention to the stairs in the back. As soon as the shooting began, Piper crossed the first floor to get a better view of a clock. He remained in roughly this location until he observed Troulee and Baker running up the stairs. Had anybody come down this steps before Troulee and Baker went up the steps? No sir. Did Vicki Adams come down before Troulee and Baker went up the steps? No sir. No sir. She didn't do it. Remember James Romack and George Rackley? I mean I wouldn't blame you if you don't, there's like a hundred different aims to keep track of, but they were the ones who failed to spot anyone leaving the Book Depository via the rear entrance for several minutes after the shooting. Well the thing is, according to both Stiles and Adams, they left the Book Depository via the rear entrance upon reaching the first floor. So if Romack and Rackley are to be believed, then once again, the descent of Stiles and Adams must have taken place minutes rather than seconds after the shooting. Not only that, but when Sandra Stiles was contacted by another researcher, she apparently expressed great uncertainty regarding the stairwell descent and thought it might in fact have occurred a couple of minutes after the shooting. I don't know what to make of all this. The conspiracy crowd will of course amplify the more suspicious elements while those who support the official narrative will focus on that which the spread of Adams. But ultimately we don't know the exact timeline of events. It's difficult enough to pin down the minute by minute chronology. Once you get down to seconds, there's a lot of guesswork at play. The time trials by Trouli and Baker gives us a rough estimate, but that's not cast and stone. They could've easily been a bit faster, a bit slower, so too could've Shelly, Love Lady, Hunter, Stiles, Adams and Oswald. I must also mention that we don't know much about the layout of the fourth floor beyond this crude schematic. If the other floors are any indication, much of this space was occupied by bookshelves and tall stacks of boxes. This is significant because Dorothy Garner never actually saw Stiles and Adams enter the stairway. She only heard footsteps of what she presumed to be them running on the stairs. Following a quick sweep of the roof, Trouli and Marion Baker returned to the ground floor of the book to pass story. What did you do when you got back to the first floor or what did you see? When I got back to the first floor, at first I didn't see anything except officers running around. Reporters in the place. There was a regular madhouse. Had they sealed off the building yet? Do you know? I am sure they had. Then in a few minutes, it could have been moments or minutes at a time like that. I noticed some of my boys were over in the west corner of the ship in department and there were several officers over there taking their names and addresses and so forth. I noticed that Lee Oswald was not among these boys. Oswald was not the only absentee but he was the only one who truly knew for a fact had left the building after a shooting. Meanwhile, on the sixth floor, a stack of boxes in the southeast corner attracted the attention of Deputy Luke Mooney. I went straight across to the southeast corner of the building and I saw all these high boxes and the men and I squeezed between these two stacks of boxes. I had to turn myself sideways to get in there. That is when I saw the expended shells and the boxes that were stacked up looked to be a rest for the weapon. To windows west of the sniper's nest, authorities found a bottle of Dr. Pepper and some chicken bones. Leftovers from the luncheaten bribony Williams shortly before the assassination. But according to some officers, including Mooney, remains of a similar meal were also found in the sniper's nest. Does this photograph show any place where you saw the chicken bone? If I recall correctly, the chicken bone could have been laying on this box or might have been laying on this box right here. It was one of them partially eaten and there was a little small paper poke. You mean a paper sack? Right. The assassin could just maybe take one step and lay it over there if he was the one that put it there. In spite of this, no such items were ever photographt. Apart from the sack of chicken bones found here, there are no records of leftovers being recovered from anywhere else near the sniper's nest. Now did you see a chicken bone or near the boxes in the southeast corner? I don't believe there was one there. You didn't see any. One witness, a deputy sheriff named Luke Mooney, said he found a piece of chicken partly eaten on top of one of the boxes. Did you see anything like that? No. Was anything like that called to your attention? I can't recall anything like that. But it wasn't just the chicken bones. There were similar disagreements regarding the three cartridge cases. According to Mooney, Dallas Police Captain William Fritz, tampered with the evidence. Are those the empty shells you found? Yes, sir. Now, will you take this marker and encircle the shells? All right. They were turned over to Captain Fritz. Yes, sir. He was the first officer that picked him up, as far as I know, because I stood there and watched him go over and pick him up and look at him. Is this the position of the cartridges as shown in this photograph as you saw them? Yes, sir. That is just about the way they were laying to best of my knowledge. I do know there was one further away, and these other two were relatively close to each other on this particular area. But these cartridges, this one and this one, looks like they are further apart than they actually was. No, I didn't quite understand. Did you say that it was your memory that A and B were not that close together? Just from my memory, it seems that this cartridge ought to be in over this way a little further. You mean the B cartridge should be closer to the C? Yes, sir. Noonie did not explicitly state, but strongly implied that Captain Fritz moved at least one of the cartridge cases before they were photographed. According to Fritz, he did everything by the book. I told him not to move the cartridges, not to touch anything until we could get the crime lab to take pictures of them, just as they were lying there. And I left an officer assigned there to see that that was done, and the crime lab came almost immediately and took pictures and dusted the shells for prints. Amidst the swarm of officers canvassing the six-floor was a lone journalist by the name of Thomas Thalier. Thalier was equipped with a camera and actually filmed much of the frantic search effort. About three decades later, Thalier made some rather startling claims that were largely consistent with, but also expanded upon those made by Noonie. After filming the case, I asked Captain Fritz, who was standing on my side. If I could go behind the barricade and get a close-up shot of the casings, he told me that it would be better if I got my shots from outside the barricade. He then rounded the pile of boxes and entered the enclosure. This was the first time anybody walked between the barricade and the windows. Fritz then walked to the casings, picked them up and held them in his hand over the top of the boxes for me to get a close-up shot of the evidence. I filmed about eight seconds of a close-up shot of the shell casings and kept in Fritz's hand. While these allenged portions of Alie's film have never surfaced, pressurvation took a back seat while the film was being prepared for broadcast. Portions of the film were carelessly chopped up and discarded and fragmentary clips are all that remains today. In any case, after supposedly filming the casings in the hand of Captain Fritz, Alie recalled how they were deceitfully returned to the floor. Over 30 minutes later, Captain Fritz reached into his pocket and handed the casings to Detective Robert Studebaker. Detective Studebaker never saw the original placement of the casings, so he tossed them on the floor and photographed them. To counterbalance these allegations of foul play, I must also mention that there were those who found nothing amiss about the cartridge cases. Did you see a picture taken of the holes? Yes, sir. When the picture was taken, where the holes in the same position as when you had first seen them. Yes, sir. They were. Captain Mooney sought a fegrary that the casings had not been moved, immediately after explaining that they had been moved. In the testimony we heard a few minutes ago, Mooney was shown this photograph. He then examined this one taken from a different angle before being shown this one. Now these two are just differently cropped copies of the same photograph. I have another picture. Here is a picture taken also from another angle. Does that show the cartridges? Yes, sir. Now compare that with the other photograph. Yes, sir. Is that about the way it looked? Yes, sir. That is right. It sure is. That doesn't really gel with the casings supposedly being picked up and have hastily tossed back on the floor as Thomas Alie would claim decades later. While there are question marks surrounding the chicken bones in the cartridge cases, there can be no doubt that some of the boxes in the sniper's nest were moved prior to being filled with the bathroom. Do you have any pictures of the boxes near the window before they were moved, other than those you have showed me? Just these two? Then you don't have any pictures taken of the boxes before they were moved. No. Now I will show you another picture. Was that taken by you? Yes. Does that show the position of the boxes before or after they were moved? That's after they were dusted. There is fingerprint dust on every box. They were not in that position then when you first saw them. No. Several minutes after the sniper's nest was discovered, a bolt-action rifle was found between two Rosa boxes near the stairway. Now there was some initial confusion regarding its make and model. Some thought it looked like a mouse, but upon closer inspection it was identified as an Italian carcano. The officer who misidentified the rifle later explained that he did so at the glance. However, over a decade after the assassination in 1976, a former deputy sheriff by the name of Roger Craig claimed to have seen the marking 7.65 mouser stamped right in the barrel of the rifle. To some, this is evidence that a mouser was in fact discovered at the sixth floor before being swapped for a carcano. But Craig was the only person to make this specific claim, did so many years after the assassination and after telling a journalist the following. Did you handle that rifle on the sixth floor? Yes, I did. I couldn't give its name because I don't know foreign rifles. I know it was foreign made and you loaded it downward into a built-in clip. But there was another rifle, a mouser, found up on the roof of the depository that afternoon. There were no reports of a mouser being found on the roof either. Besides the only rifle seen in the film taken by Thomas Alie is unmistakably a carcano. Beneak markings on the cartridge cases would later prove that this wasn't either rifle from which all three had been fired. Before the day was over, the rifle had been traced to a company in Chicago, Illinois. The company had sold the rifle to someone named A. Hedell and shifted to a post office box in Dallas in early 1963. Alec James Hedell was a pseudonym known to be used by Oswald. So there was now a direct link between the shells, the rifle and Oswald. Not only that, but Oswald's prints were lifted from both the rifle and boxes in the sniper's nest. Apart from the spent shells and the rifle, authorities discovered one other key piece of evidence. Did you find anything else up in the southeast corner of the sixth floor? Yes, sir. We found this brown paper sack or case. It was made out of heavy wrapping paper. Actually, it looks similar to the paper that those books in the building was wrapped in. It was just a long, narrow paper bag. The bag was alleged to have been found here at this space is suspiciously empty in all the crime scene photographs. How long was the paper bag approximately? I don't know. I picked it up and dusted it for prints and they took it down there and sent it to Washington. That's the last odd scene of it. And I don't know. Did you take a picture of it before you picked it up? No. Does that sack show in any of the pictures you took? No, it doesn't show in any of the pictures. Detective Robert Studebaker, who'd been working as a forensic assistant for less than two months, neglected to explain why he never photographed the bag. In Studebaker's defense, no one was on the lookout for a brown paper bag, as as an insure rifle casings absolutely, but some debris in a dark lit corner of the room. It wasn't until the bag was picked up and inspected that its significance became apparent. Do you remember anything about what the sack looked like? Well, it was assumed at the time that it was the sack that the rifle was wrapped up in when it was brought into the building, and it appeared that it could have been used for that. Now, as you may recall, Wesley Frazier drove Oswald back to Irving on November 21st to pick up some curtain rods. The following morning, Oswald was deemed carrying a package by both Frazier and his sister, the Neurandal. According to Frazier, Oswald told him the package contained curtain rods which had been brought back to Dallas, but you may also recall that Jack Doherty denied seeing such a package. Did you see Oswald come to work that morning? Yes, when he first came into the door. Did he have anything in his hands or arms? Well, not that I could see of. The thing is Doherty was not a reliable witness. When questioned by the FBI and Secret Service, he appeared very confused about times and places. He required assistance from his father due to considerable difficulty in coordinating his mental faculties with his speech. While Doherty denied having such issues, his testimony is nonetheless riddled with contradictions. Wait a minute. Did you go to lunch? Well, I went back downstairs to eat lunch. Yes, sir. What time? Oh, it was 12 o'clock. Wait a minute. Did you hear the shots before or after your lunch? Before. Before I ate my lunch. You heard shots before you ate your lunch? Let's see. Yes, I believe I did. Now, did you hear a shot either before or after lunch? It was before lunch. It was before lunch. You think it was before lunch? You heard the shot. I believe it was. Yes, sir. While Doherty insisted that Oswald had nothing in his hands when he arrived at work, it turned out that this certitude was based on nothing but a glance. Now, is that a very definite impression that you saw Oswald that morning when he came to work? Well, oh, it's like this. I'll try to explain it to you this way. You see, I was sitting on the wrapping table and when he came in the door, I just caught him out of the corner of my eye. Given that Fraysher had eyes in Oswald for several minutes, the weight of evidence suggests he carried a package to work on the morning of November 22nd. A former contentious question is whether the package carried by Oswald was the same as the brown paper bag discovered on the sixth floor. According to both Randall and Fraysher, the only two witnesses note I've seen the package. The answer was a definite no. Now, was the length of the package any similar to the bag? Anywhere near similar? Well, it wasn't that long. I mean, it was folded down at the top as I told you. It definitely wasn't that long. I told the FBI that as far as the length of the bag, I told them that was entirely too long. The main source of contention was that the package carried by Oswald was shorter than the brown paper bag. The bag was just long enough to store the rifle in its disassembled state, so if the package carried by Oswald was much shorter, then it could not have contained the rifle. Except Randall saw it briefly at a distance through a window, while Fraysher never paid it much attention. Did it look to you as if there was something heavy in the package? Well, I'll be frank with you. I didn't pay much attention to the package. In fact, the length of the package seemed about the certain to Fraysher as his lack of attention to it. I didn't pay much attention. I didn't pay too much attention. I didn't pay any attention to it. I didn't pay much attention to the package. I didn't look at the package very much, like I say. I didn't pay that much attention to it. I didn't pay too much attention to how he carried the package at all. The tape and paper would which the brown paper bag had been constructed matched the tape and paper used to wrap books for shipping on the first floor of the book-to-poll story. Not only that, but a fingerprint and palm print matching that of Oswald were also found on the bag. In spite of all this, some authors refused to accept that the brown paper bag and the package carried by Oswald were one and the same. Instead, the argument tends to be that the bag was fabricated by authorities in an effort to frame Oswald. But you then have to square that against no curtain rods being found inside the book-to-poll story, Oswald already having curtains in his rented room in Dallas. Him failing to obtain permission from his landlady to redecorate. Him supposedly being in such urgent need of curtain rods that he just had to return to Irving on Thursday instead of waiting just one more day. Him neglecting to mention anything about curtain rods to his wife and Ruth paying upon his arrival and as despite the fact that pain actually had some spare curtain rods in her garage. The same garage were Oswald's stored his rifle. How did you learn of the shooting of President Kennedy? I was watching television and Ruth said someone had shot at the president. What did you say? It was a heart for me to say anything. We both don't fail. I went to my room and cried. Did you think immediately that your husband might have been involved? No. Did Mrs. Payne say anything about the possibility of your husband being involved? No, but she only said that by the way they fired from the building in which Lee is working. My heart dropped. I then went to the garage to see what her the rifle was there and I saw that the blanket was still there and I said thank God. Did you look in the blanket to see if the rifle was there? I didn't turn a roll to the blanket. It was in its usual position and it appeared to have something inside. When did you learn that the rifle was not in the blanket? When the police arrived and asked whether my husband had the rifle and I said yes. Then what happened? They began to search the apartment. When they came to the garage and took the blanket I thought well now they will find it. They opened the blanket but there was no rifle there. Around the time of the rifle's discovery on the sixth floor of the Booktabaw story, Captain William Fritz was appraised of Oswald's absence. Fritz immediately left the building and returned to police headquarters. We were standing in the hallway when Captain Fritz walked in. He walked up to my colleagues and made the statement to them. Go get a search warrant and pick up a man named Lee Oswald and I asked the captain why he wanted him and he said well he was employed down at the Booktabaw story and he had not been present for a row call of employees and we said Captain we will save you a trip because there he sits. After escaping the Booktabaw story Oswald boarded a bus right about here but the assassination ground traffic to a halt so Oswald soon left the bus and healed the cab. After returning to his rooming house in Oakcliff, a neighborhood in southwestern Dallas, Oswald changed his clothes, grabbed a gun and left in a hurry. 78. You aren't helping her are you not? The last time I was there, we were going to be at Mars for emergency. Police patrolman JD Tippett encountered Oswald some 45 minutes after shooting a bit further south right about here. As soon as Tippett stepped out of the vehicle, Oswald drew his gun and fired four shots in rapid succession. Oswald was then caught sneaking into a nearby movie theatre without purchasing a ticket. 8. A large continued officer descended upon the theatre. They surrounded a building, switched on the lights and approached the suspect. Flanked by officers, Oswald drew a gun and a brief scuffle ensued. But this time he was quickly subdued, handcuffed and taken to police headquarters back in downtown Dallas. 8. Over the next two days, between his arrest and untimely death, Lee Harvey Oswald wasn't interrogated by members of the Dallas Police, FBI, Secret Service, among others. None of it was recorded. Did you have any tape recorders? No sir, I don't have a tape recorder. We need one. If we had one at this time, we could have handled these conversations far or better. The Dallas Police Department doesn't have one. No sir, I have requested one several times, but so far they haven't gotten me one. So no one knows exactly what was said inside this room. Instead we have to settle for the cliff notes and of especially interest to us is Oswald's alibi. You're sure if the president's alive? I didn't shoot anybody. He just heard Oswald who said he did not shoot anybody. Oswald vehemently denied any involvement in the assassination. Instead he claimed to have eaten lunch with two co-workers on the first floor of the book to Paul's story. One of them was a black co-worker whose name Oswald could not recall. The other was James Jarman. Were you with anybody when you were walking around on the first floor finishing your sandwich? No, I wasn't. I was trying to get through. Black could get out on the street. Did you see Lee Oswald? No, I didn't. After his arrest he stated to a police officer that he had had lunch with you. Did you have a lunch with him? No sir, I didn't. But according to another interrogator, Oswald's claim was not to have eaten lunch with the Jarman and his unnamed co-worker but merely that he saw them pass through the lunchroom while he was eating. Oswald stated that he had eaten lunch in the lunchroom at the Texas School Book Depository alone but recalled possibly two black employees walking through the room during this period. He stated possibly one of these employees was called Junior and the other was a short individual whose name he could not recall but whom he would be able to recognize. So according to this version of events, Oswald's alibi was that he possibly saw two co-workers, one whose name he could not recall, enter and traverse the lunchroom together or separately during an unspecified period of time. Whether Oswald claimed to have eaten lunch with or in proximity of his colleagues, it makes no difference because neither alibi could be substantiated. Instead James Jarman had last seen Oswald taking an elevator upstairs sometime between half past eleven and twelve o'clock. William Shelley and Eddie Piper had last seen Oswald roaming about the first floor around noon, at which time Oswald had told Piper that he was either going out or going up to eat lunch. Then there's the account of Charles Givens. You may recall that Givens is officially recognized as the last person inside the book depository known to have seen Oswald before the assassination. Their encounter was fixed at eleven fifty five and is supposed to have taken place on the sixth floor. But prior to relating this version of events, Givens had reportedly told the FBI that he saw Oswald on the first floor at eleven fifty, a statement which he later denied ever making. By the way, Oswald being on the first floor at noon does absolutely nothing to prevent him from being on the sixth half an hour later. Unless Carolyn Arnold is to be believed. As Mrs. Arnold was standing in front of the building, she stated that she thought she caught a fleeting glimpse of Lee Harvey Oswald standing in the hallway between the front door and the double doors leading to the warehouse located on the first floor. She could not be sure that this was Oswald, but she said she felt it was and believed the time to be a few minutes before 12, 15 pm. So that would be about here. In a subsequent statement, Arnold claimed have gone outside as late as 1225, thereby pushing the time of her potential, ground floor sighting of Oswald, as close as five minutes before the shooting. Putting aside the fact that her observation was described as a fleeting glimpse and that she could not be certain of the man's identity, Arnold herself will later denied ever happened. That is completely foreign to me. It would have forced me to have been turning back around to the building when, in fact, I was trying to watch the parade. Why would I be looking back inside the building? That doesn't make any sense to me. Instead, Arnold claimed that this encounter had actually taken place in the second floor lunch room. I do not recall that Oswald was doing anything. I just recall that he was sitting there in one of the booth seats on the right hand side of the room as you go in. He was alone, as usual, and appeared to be having lunch. I did not speak to him, but I recognized him clearly. The problem with both of these accounts is that none of her colleagues reported anything remotely similar. Whether it was the first or second floor, Oswald was apparently invisible to everyone but Arnold. Besides, it took Arnold 15 years to relate her revised version of events. Not ideal for such a time-sensitive issue. That being said, depending on what conspiracy theory or will intent to tame, there are ways to interpret what Oswald told his interrogators so that it aligns with either one of Arnold's accounts. Take this one, for instance. Oswald stated he was present for work at the book depository on the morning of November 22nd, and at noon went to lunch. He went to the second floor to get a coke cola and returned to the first floor to eat lunch. Then he went outside to watch the presidential parade. This claim is interesting because in the early days of the assassination, it appeared to be supported by photographic evidence. But this figure was quickly identified as Billy Love Lady, a man who bore such a close resemblance to Oswald that when footage of Oswald first appeared on television, Love Lady Stepchildren thought it was him. Now speaking only for myself here, really? Am I missing something here because they're not exactly doppelgangers, right? Anyway, in recent years another such figure this time would even fewer pixels to work with has once again been the subject of debate. Because this much of a person can't be positively identified, some believe it, therefore, must be Oswald. On the other hand, Oswald explicitly denied watching the motelcade when he spoke with another interrogator, not to mention that his presence outside went completely unnoticed by all those who did watch the motelcade. Now there's one final account of Oswald's supposed alibi that stands out from the rest. It stands out because it really skirts the line of self-incrimination. When asked as to his whereabouts at the time of the shooting, Oswald stated that when lunchtime came and he didn't say which floor he was on, he said, one of the black employees invited him to eat lunch with him and he stated, you go on down and send the elevator back up and I will join you in a few minutes. Before he could finish whatever he was doing, he stated the commotion surrounding the assassination took place. And when he went downstairs, a policeman questioned him as to his identification and his boss stated that he is one of our employees whereupon the policeman had him step aside momentarily. Following this, he simply walked out the front door of the building. If this is an accurate recollection of what Oswald said, he placed himself on a floor above the second at the time of the shooting. While he neglected to mention which floor he described the conversation between himself and an unnamed black coworker which sounds remarkably similar to the one described by Charles Givens, this would mean that Oswald seemingly by accident placed himself on the sixth floor during the shooting. After that horribly confusing mishmash of stories, what have we learned? Well, Oswald appears to have contradicted himself by offering multiple alibis. It's also possible that what he said was misunderstood or otherwise misrepresented by the interrogation participants. As mentioned at the beginning of all this, we don't actually know what Oswald said. This is all based on secondhand accounts related days, weeks, or even months after the assassination. But the main takeaway has to be the lack of corroboration, with the exception of Carolyn Arnold a highly unreliable witness, no one laid ice on Oswald between roughly noon and the shooting. At least no one inside the booktapar story. Among those who witnessed the sniper and the sniper's nest, Howard Brennan was the only one who thought he could identify the gunman. At least that's what he stated initially, with enough hours of the shooting, and Brennan had become far less certain. Brennan was then brought down to the basement of the police station to view a line up of suspects, among them, was Oswald. Mr. Brennan looked very carefully and he said, I cannot positively say. I said, well, is there anyone there that looks like the man in the booktapar story? He said, well, that second man from the left, he was Oswald. He looks like him. Then he repeated that the man he saw in the booktapar story was not disheveled. So that's not ideal. While Brennan did pick Oswald from a line up, that identification was far from certain. But if Brennan is to be believed, this uncertainty was not genuine, but merely an act intended to protect his family. I believed at that time, and I still believe the assassination was a communist activity, and I felt like there hadn't been more than one eyewitness. And if it got to be a known fact that I was an eyewitness, my family or I, either one, might not be safe. Well, if you wouldn't have identified Oswald during the line up, might he not have been released by the police? No, I already knew they had the man for murder, and I knew he would not be released. The murder of whom? Of Officer J.D. Tippett. Well, what happened in between to change your mind, that you later decided to come forth and tell the FBI that you could identify him? After Oswald was killed, I was relieved quite a bit that as far as pressure on myself, of somebody not wanting me to identify anybody, there was no longer that immediate danger. Mr. Brennan, could you tell us now whether you can or cannot positively identify the man you saw in the sixth floor window as the same man that you saw in the police station? I could at that time, I could with all sincerity identify him as being the same man. So, according to Brennan, within a few hours of the assassination, he'd become concerned that it was the product of a communist conspiracy. He feared that, should he attempt to identify the gunman, he could become a target and thereby endangering his family. Did you and your wife discuss any aspect of the assassination and you being present more or less at the scene of the assassination? Yes, we discussed it. We talked. I talked to moving her and my grandson who was living with us at that time and my daughter, moving them out of town somewhere in secrecy. My wife seemed to think that a person can't get away wherever they go. So when Brennan was brought down to view a lineup later that evening, he fained uncertainty to protect his family. At least, so he claimed, I'll leave it up to you to decide whether to believe or disbelieve Brennan's story. On Sunday morning, November 24th, Oswald was scheduled for transfer from the city to the county jail, reporting from outside the police station, a local news correspondent couldn't help but to jinx the whole shabang. Now this is the armored truck that will carry Lee Harold Oswald from the basement here of Dallas Police headquarters downtown to the Dallas County Sheriff's Office and the Dallas County Jail. Strict security precautions have been exercised from the very beginning and have been even increased this morning as fear arises and grows stronger that someone may attempt to take the life of the man accused of murdering the president of the United States. He's been shot. He's been shot. The Oswald has been shot. The doctors at Parkland Hospital said that the single shot could scarcely have done more damage to a body than that shot did to Lee Harvey Oswald. It penetrated his spleen, his pancreas, the aorta, the kidney, and the liver. Oswald expired at 107 pm. He died as 107 pm. We have arrested the man. The man will be charged with murder. The suspect's name is Jack Rubin Stein, I believe. He goes by the name of Jack Ruby. That's all I have to say. Through out this video, we've encountered witnesses who not only contradict at each other, but also themselves. Central to many arguments of conspiracies that these contradictions represent attempts by the conspirators to conceal the truth. To give you an example, Charles Givens initially claimed to have seen Oswald on the first floor at 1150. Then he denied ever saying that and claimed to have spoken but also on the sixth floor at 1155. Some authors have found this change a bit too convenient and suspected Givens was coerced to change his story by the conspirators. In support of that conclusion, we have this document in which Dallas Police Lieutenant Jack Revel said the following. Lieutenant Revel stated that Givens had been previously handled by the Dallas Police Department on a marijuana charge and he believes that Givens would change his story for money. About two months later, Givens did precisely that. He changed his story. But let's have a think about this. According to this interpretation of events, the conspirators had freeway to dictate Givens' testimony. They could have told him what to say or perhaps rewritten his testimony after the fact. You may recall that that is precisely what Victoria Adams claimed and Carolyn Arnold implied earlier in the video that someone had put words in their mouth by altering the written record. Okay, so wielding that near-limitless power, what words did the conspirators choose to put in the mouth of Givens? Well, they supposedly invented a brief conversation about lunch and elevators away from the sniper's nest more than half an hour before the shooting. I guess I saw Oswald sitting in the sniper's nest or even I saw Oswald carrying a large package heading for the sniper's nest was a bit too in the nose. The same is of course true of every other witness in Deely Plaza. Apart from the doubtful identification by Howard Brennan, no one could actually place Oswald in the sniper's nest at the time of the shooting. I really cannot stress this enough. It apparently did not occur to the conspirators to have at least one witness unambiguously identified Oswald as the assassin. Better yet, take a photograph. For all this talk of witness coercion and evidence tampering, that seems like a bit of an oversight. What I'm trying to illustrate is that it's surprisingly trivial to pluck a straight document here and unfounded allegation there and sprinkle in some thoughts about means and motive and you'll end up with a conspiracy theory that at least on the surface sounds convincing. Whether it's organized crime, a foreign government or domestic agency, there's enough material here to make a compelling case against countless groups and individuals, something upon which many authors, filmmakers and others have capitalized a great success. I don't know if all of them are right or wrong that this video clearly doesn't cover enough ground for me to determine that, but to ascribe a conspiratorial motive to anything remotely suspicious, seems irresponsibly black and white for a case so clouded by shades of gray. A person acting in a way that's unlawful, unethical, untruthful does not prove they colluded in a plot to assassinate the president of the United States. Such thrilling leaps of conspiracy make fine detaining stories, but that doesn't make them true. Remember Thomas Alie? He was the journalist filming on the sixth floor during the initial search for the assassin. Decades later, Alie began accusing officers of tampering with the evidence, staging photographs and lying on their oath. The veracity of those allegations aside, the fascinating thing about Alie is that he never believed Kennedy fell victim to a conspiracy. Alie had a refreshingly nuanced take on the assassination by recognizing that evidence of corruption is not the same as evidence of conspiracy. Sloppy police work neither began or ended with a Kennedy assassination and people lie for all sorts of reasons. Loyalty, embarrassment, fear, pride, attention, power, money, that there's no shortage of motivations to choose from. Besides, what kind of clueless masterminds would allow a cameraman to casually film their supposed cover-up? Something I found myself doing a lot while making this video was attempting to view the assassination from the perspective of the alleged conspirators. You could, for instance, question the logic of placing an assassin in this specific window, a window in which he ran the risk of being caught red handed by other workers inside the building, a window in which could have easily been and actually was spotted by spectators in the approaching motricade, a window from which his view was partially obstructed by a tree. You could also question the logic of using a sniper to shoot that they're moving targets in the first place, especially when that person had a tendency to stand still in very exposed public places. If Oswald acted alone and the assassination was a crime of opportunity, these less than ideal choices start to make a lot more sense. He found himself at the right place at the right time, had mere days to prepare and use the only building to which it acts. But for a group of conspirators to hand-decap their own assassination plot, requires a bit more ingenuity to explain. He was a Pat C, was supposed to get caught, they were multiple assassins, you know the drill. But there's so much of that in this case, so much had to go just right for a conspiracy and the subsequent cover-up to succeed, from the roundabout process by which Oswald was hired at the book-to-poll story to the selection of the motricade route, from Oswald's narrow escape and subsequent arrest to him being given multiple chances to speak with the press. From this opposed tampering suppression and planting of evidence, to dustness of expert witnesses being successfully fooled or coaxed to lie in the roof. Not only would a plan as complex and prolonged as this one had been difficult to predict with countless points of failure, but it seems an excuse my language here, a bit overkill. Yes, Kennedy was the precedent of the United States, but he was not exactly difficult to access. He was rather famous for abandoning his secret service to tail and wandering off of the crowds. In fact, that's precisely what he did on multiple occasions during this very trip. As this news correspondent was alluding to just a few minutes before the actual shooting, all it takes is one person with a gun at Point Blank Range. Not unlike the shooting of Oswald. Think about that the next time you watch a documentary or read one of the thousands of books implicating members of the Secret Service, FBI, CIA, Dallas Police Department politicians, lawyers, doctors, investigators, witnesses and so forth. Think about how all these alleged co-conspirators did not have to be a part of any of this. Just one person in a crowd whose guild is assured the moment they pulled the trigger. By roping in this ensemble cast of characters, it inadvertently makes the conspirator seem clueless. I like to imagine a conference room and up against a wall stands a board upon which they've mapped out the whole thing. All the people need to manipulate all the evidence they have to fabricate, the entire patchwork of needless risk taking laid out bare before them. And they looked at that and then looked at each other and went, yep, that's a solid plan. But even then, even if we assume the conspirators didn't really think it through or, I don't know, made it up as they went along, that doesn't really jive with them not getting caught? Something that would have taken a lot of planning, scale and ingenuity. So, I guess you somehow have to convince yourself that they were clueless enough to wing the crime of the century, yet clever enough to get away with it. And therefore, there was no conspiracy. No, I don't believe any of these arguments make it impossible for others to be involved, they just make it a bit more difficult to keep that tinful hat firmly in place. I mean, if there was an argument which to close the book on this case, I would not be the first to think of it nearly six decades and a continent removed from the events in question. I can guarantee you that much. Also, the word conspiracy doesn't even necessarily mean that there were other people involved in the planning and execution of the assassination. For instance, there's what some refer to as a benign conspiracy. This typically means that there was a cover-up, but it was not motivated by the concealment of complicity, as is so often assumed. Instead, Oswald did act alone, but there was some other motive behind the suppression of evidence, a common one being that federal agencies attempted to save face by concealing or downplaying the full extent of their failure to prevent the assassination. I mean, a known communist with ties to Russia, blindsiding the entire intelligence community by assassinating the commander-in-chief on a public street and broad daylight at the height of the Cold War, is not exactly resume material. Point being that there are countless ways to interpret the evidence in a case as vast as this one. I am not exaggerating when I say that you could easily make dozens of these videos and still have plenty left to talk about. After all, the Texas-Coldbooked-Apoll story is but one piece of a much larger puzzle. Thanks for watching, support me on Patreon if you want to okay bye.