Just let me know. Near the end of the 16th century, a man by the name of John White embarked on a transatlantic voyage. His destination was the island of Roanoke along the southeast and coast of North America. On this island, White had established an English colony some three years before, and he was now returning to resume his position as governor. After a long and difficult journey, White finally reached the site of the colony, only to find the more than 100 men, women and children he'd left behind and disappeared. A secret message carved into a tree was one of the only clues left behind at the scene. Before White had a chance to conduct a more extensive search, the ship returned to England and in its wake it left a mystery. That happened to the lost colony of Roanoke. Before we can tackle the lost colony, we first need to understand events leading up to its disappearance. The story begins in 1584, when two ships sailed across the Atlantic to scout for a suitable location for the planting of the first permanent English colony in America. In mid-July, they made landfall on a string of barrier islands known as the Outer Banks. The English quickly developed friendly relations with the local Native Americans and were soon invited to their village on Roanoke Island. After about a month, the scouting expedition returned to their ships and sailed back to England. Upon the expedition's return in late September, the man in charge of the Enterprise Walter Raleigh immediately began preparations to plant a permanent colony somewhere along the Outer Banks. The colony was soon thereafter knighted by Queen Elizabeth I and the new land was to be named Virginia in honor of the Virgin Queen. In April of 1585, a fleet of seven ships departed England with a complement of roughly 600 men and loaded with enough provisions to sustain the colony for about a year. The fleet reached the Outer Banks at the end of June but was soon faced with a crisis. Navigating the waters of the Outer Banks can be notoriously treacherous as indicated by these sinking ships and when the flagship passed through one of the shallow inlets, it struck a shell and was nearly destroyed. As the flagship carried the bulk of the provisions and most of it was now spoiled by sea water, the scope of the colony had to be dramatically reduced. About 100 men, far fewer than initially intended, were stationed on Roanoke Island and with the native's approval, they began construction of what was to become the Roanoke colony. The island was primarily chosen for its strategic value. It provided quick access to the ocean while still making the colony invisible to Spanish patrols. You see, Spain had already colonized and laid claim to much of what the English now called Virginia, so they had to be careful not to attract any unwanted attention. A second wave of supplies and reinforcements was expected to arrive before the winter but unbeknownst to the colonists, the resupply mission had been countermanded by the queen to deal with more pressing concerns back in England. As such, once the colonists ran out of food, they had to rely on the generosity of the natives. However, the natives only had so much to spare and struggled to meet increasing demands by the colonists. This overdependence quickly began to strain their relationship. And while people had begun to notice other stir-bing trend, every time the English visited a native American village, many of its inhabitants would inexplicably collapse and die. The natives believed the English could kill from a distance by shooting invisible bullets and they were not too far off. While unknown at the time, the English were carrying deadly pathogens to which the natives lacked immunity and thus an epidemic was unwittingly unleashed upon the indigenous population. The two leaders back on Roanoke, colonial governor Ralph Lane and Indian chiefs and Wenzina eventually grew so suspicious of one another that cohabitation was no longer possible. Wenzina decided to remove his people from the island and retreated to a larger village on the mainland. Meanwhile, Lane came to believe that Wenzina had formed an alliance with other tribes and that they were plotting to launch an attack against the colony. Whether he was paranoid or not, Lane decided to take preemptive action. On the 1st of June 1586, Lane and his men made their way to the mainland village and mass occurred its people. One of the Englishmen chased after and decapitated Wenzina and his head was later impaled outside the fort of the colony. A week later, a large English fleet commanded by the renowned sea captain Sir Francis Drake dropped by the outer banks on its way back to England. Given the lack of food and violent clashes with the natives, it was decided to abandon the colony. The colonists were hastily evacuated off the island and then after nine long months, they all returned home. All except three who were not located in time for the evacuation and so the fleet left them behind. They were never heard from again. If the scouting expedition of 1584 had been a resounding success, the colony of 1585 was a catagorical failure. Relations with the Native Americans had completely fallen apart. The severe lack of food had made life miserable and they had failed to track down rumored sources of gold and copper which could have made the venture worthwhile. In spite of all this, at least one man was eager to return. His name was John White. White was a painter and artist by trade and many of the maps and sketches that you've seen so far were either drawn by him or based on his work. Somewhat ironically, however, there are no surviving portraits of White himself. White's participation in these earlier voyages is slightly ambiguous. He may have been part of the scouting expedition in 1584 but he was definitely part of the voyage in 1885. One is a bit unclear whether he stayed behind the colony or returned to England with the outbound fleet. For instance, White's name is not included in a surviving list of all the colonists. But some historians believe this is merely an oversight and that he was in fact part of the colony. In either case, Sir Walter Raleigh was eventually persuaded by White and others to attempt a second venture. Unlike the first colony which had been more akin to a military outpost, the second would include women and children including White's pregnant daughter Eleanor Der. After a long struggle to secure the necessary funding, a fleet of three ships commanded by White who would also service the governor of the colony, the Ported England in late spring of 1587. The misfortune of the first colony did not end with its evacuation in 1586. Many days later a ship filled with provisions sent by Sir Walter Raleigh arrived at the Alterbags. The crew spent some time searching for the colonists but when they found no sign of them including the three men that had been left behind, they returned home. The same thing happened two weeks later when an Englishbound fleet loaded with supplies and reinforcements also found the colony deserted. Unwilling to leave the colony vacant however, the captain left 15 crewmen on Roanoke before the fleet resumed course for England. One White had been told about the 15 crewmen before he departed, so when his fleet approached the Alterbags in late July of 1587 he intended to pay them a visit. But this is where things get confusing. You see the second colony was never intended to be established on Roanoke. After all the long list of complications encountered by the first colony, made it clear that Roanoke was far from an ideal location. At the second colony or the city of Raleigh as the man in charge and so immodestly named it, was to be planted somewhere along the coast of Chesapeake Bay. This made a lot more sense. The water was deeper to allow for larger ships and not nearly as precarious as those around the Alterbags. There was plenty of open space, the soil was more fertile and all around it seemed an improvement to Roanoke Island. But the fleet's Portuguese navigators, Simau Fernandez, had other plans. Fernandez had also been the navigator of the two previous expeditions and was a far more experienced sailor than White. So even though White was officially the captain, it seems much of the crew respected the authority of Fernandez. As such when Fernandez decided to ignore the plan about Chesapeake Bay and instead simply dumped the colonists on Roanoke, White did nothing to challenge his decision. The rest of the crew quickly fell in line and soon enough everyone disemborked for Roanoke. Upon reaching the abandoned colony there was no sign of the 15 crewmen they had come to assist. Instead they found a pile of bones that appeared to be the remains of one of them. White suspected the men had been attacked by vengeful Indians and any doubts he might have had were soon to be raced. After only a few days on the island, a colonist by the name of George Howe was attacked by a group of natives who pelted him with 16 arrows before caving in his skull with a wooden club. A brutal yet unmistakable message, the English were no longer welcome on Roanoke. Even so the colonists were not without allies. You see when the scouting expedition returned to England in 1584, two Native Americans named Wanchis and Mantio were brought along with them. Wanchis was from Roanoke while Mantio was from a neighboring village on the island of Croatone. When they were finally brought back to North American 1585 they had developed vastly different opinions of the English people. As soon as they made landfall, Wanchis returned to Roanoke with nothing but resentment for these foreign invaders. Meanwhile Mantio was fascinated by everything the English had to offer. He became their trusted guide and a mediator of sorts to smooth out relations upon first contact. So following the death of George Howe, white reached out to the Croatowans and they confirmed what he'd initially suspected. A large group of Indian tribes had indeed attacked the 15 crewmen station on Roanoke. This coalition was spearheaded by none other than Wanchis. At least two of the crewmen had been killed in the attack while the rest escaped in a small boat, never to be seen again. Roanoke had become a much more dangerous place to live. Simau Fernandes remained anchored near the outer banks for about a month before he decided to return to England. In the meantime the colonists had grown concerned about the long term survival of the colony. If the colony were to be truly self-sufficient they argued they would require more people and more food. As such they implored the governor white to return to England with Fernandes so that he could bring back supplies and restock the colony. White was initially hesitant to leave as he feared it would be accused of the search of the British. If he returned to England alone not to mention he would have to abandon his daughter who had recently given birth her daughter of her own named Virginia on this remote and precarious island. But in time he was persuaded to go and as the fleet departed in late August of 1587 he could not have known he would never see any of them again. After a long and difficult voyage John White returned to a country at war. By orders of the Queen no ships were to leave England until the threat of a Spanish invasion had passed. This was bad news for white and his best efforts notwithstanding he remained trapped in England for three long years. It was not until the spring of 1590 with the help of Sir Walter Rolly that White finally managed to book passage in a convoy bound for America. Upon reaching the outer banks in mid August plumes of smoke appeared to emanate from Rowanoke Island. Two boats were quickly dispatched and the crew fired the ship's cannons to make their presence known. The men could see a great fire as they approached the island but White never clarifies whether it was natural or lit by people. Once ashore they made their way to the west end of the island and found a set of footprints. They appeared to be fresh but there was no sign of those to whom they belonged. The search party then headed north and happened upon a tree where someone had carved letters C R O. Upon reaching the entrance of the colony they came across a second inscription. It was the word Croat Owen engraved into a wooden post. The post was but one of many that now formed a defensive barrier around the colony. The colony itself was deserted and clearly had been for some time given the overgrowth of grass and weeds. The houses had been taken down and stripped of valuables. All they found were bars of iron a few cannons as well as five looted chests. There was no trace of the roughly 115 colonists nor the small boats left in their possession. As far as anyone could tell no one had lived here for quite some time. The story of the lost colony is often centered around the two engravings and without the full context it's easy to see how an author might imbue these inscriptions with intrigue and mystery. In truth the carvings are some of the more well understood elements of the entire story. At least John White had no doubts about their meaning. White explains in his notes that before he left in 1587 he and the colonists had come to an agreement. If they decided to abandon the colony before the governor's return they were to leave behind a secret token of their destination. Furthermore if this abandonment was forced upon them they were to include a cross to signify the stress. Because no such cross had been found white was confident the colonists had safely relocated to the island of Croat Owen. Once White swiftly returned to the ship and convinced the captain to set course for Croat Owen. But while the crew prepared for the departure the anchor cable snapped. And without the spare anchor the captain felt it was too dangerous to continue. In the end White never made it to Croat Owen and it was the last time he ever ventured across the Atlantic. While an unsatisfying conclusion it seems relatively safe to assume the lost colony of Roanoke simply relocated to the island of Croat Owen. Case closed? Well not quite. You see while explaining the meaning of the inscriptions White revealed another interesting yet puzzling detail. With a single sentence White explains that before he left in 1587 the colonists were preparing to move 50 miles into the mainland. While Croat Owen is about 50 miles south of Roanoke it's also an island distinctly not part of the mainland. As such this lone sentence introduces if but a modicum of doubt to white's version of events. Perhaps Croat Owen was not the intended destination of drawl. If so where could they have gone? 20 years after the Roanoke colony was lost the Anglo-Spanish war had come to an end. John White faded into obscurity and Sir Walter Rolly had been found guilty of treason for conspiring against the crown. Yeah I know it's a whole other thing. Anyway renewed interest in America saw the plantation of a third colony in 1607. The James Town colony was established within the borders of a vast confederacy of Native American tribes ruled by a man the English called Powatan. One day Powatan captured the future governor of the colony John Smith and told him about the place where men wearing European clothing lived. Then after his release in 1608 Smith drew a rough map of Virginia and this is one of the notations. Unfortunately this claim and others just like it were never properly investigated. So we can never know if this was anything more than a rumor. Another unconfirmed report was that all but a few of the colonists had been massacred by Powatan. The survivors of this slaughter and Roanoke had unsupposedly scattered across the region. The problem is why did not report any human remains or signs of a battle when he returned to Roanoke in 1590. Even so an acquaintance of John Smith later wrote that Powatan had confessed to the massacre of the Smith was captured. Smith himself however makes no mention of this alleged confession and he was not exactly known to shy away from embellishment. Pocahontas. Other reports included sightings of Native American children with unusually pale skin and blonde hair which led many to suspect they could be the descendants of the lost colonists. What they had no way of knowing at the time however was that albinism is far more prevalent among Native Americans than Europeans. A more solid lead emerged the full century later when the English explorer John Lawson made contact with a tribe known as the Hatras. The Hatras occupied the same land as the Croat Owens but the island was now much larger and known as Hatras Island after a storm had closed one of the inlets. The Hatras explained to Lawson that some of their ancestors had been white and able to read. While members of the tribe also had grey eyes a unique trait of the Hatras according to Lawson they also spoke of a local legend about the ghost ship which they referred to as Sir Walter Rollie's ship. Hearing all this Lawson grew convinced the Hatras was in fact the descendants of the lost colony. Much like John White Lawson believed the colony had been relocated to Croat Owens and over time the two peoples had become one. Ok so we now have two sources over a century apart arguing for the same version of events. John White says they went to Croat Owens because carvings John Lawson says they went to Croat Owens because grey eyes and ghosts. Not the most decisive evidence perhaps but it does make for a compelling argument. Following Lawson's encounter with the Hatras in 171 nothing of significance would be uncovered for centuries that is until the late 1930s when a series of peculiar stones suddenly brought the mystery back to life. The stones had been inscribed with messages supposedly written by Eleanor Derr the daughter of John White. Unfortunately they all turned out to be fake. Well all except the first stone whose authenticity remains in doubt. This stone features a message from Derr addressed to White in which he describes the tragic death of her husband and child. The composition of the stone makes it well suited for inscribing a message but a poor choice for a forger as they would have had to chemically age the fresh markings to match the weathered surface. It would not have been impossible but quite difficult to do so in the 1930s. On the other hand the man who supposedly found the stone was never heard from again and the precise location of its discovery was conveniently kept secret. The credibility of the writing is equally contested and there's just no consensus on what to make of it. Modern archaeological research has also been plagued by uncertainties. Excavations that Roanoke have mostly confirmed the presence of a 16th century English colony but have done little in the way of determining its fate. Meanwhile excavations on Hatras has yielded a mix of Native American and European artifacts including the hilt of a light sword but nothing that can be definitively linked to the lost colony. To make matters worse much of the evidence may now be underwater due to centuries of shifting sands and erosion of the islands. It was partially out of frustration for this lack of progress that researchers made a remarkable discovery in late 2011. While inspecting White's map of Virginia a member of the first colony foundation took note of these patches. Historically patches like these have been used to correct minor mistakes so no one had ever given them a second thought. This time someone did and had the patches carefully examined. Underneath the lower patch they found exactly what you'd expect, minor corrections. Underneath the upper patch however they found this. This four-pointed star is a typical representation of a fort. A comparable symbol can be seen on this map from the early 17th century. The paint used to draw the symbol matches the paint used elsewhere on the map including the corrections drawn on top of the lower patch, suggesting it was drawn and concealed by White himself. More puzzling still a slightly smaller four-pointed star enclosed by two concentric squares has been painted with invisible ink on top of the patch. This symbol can even be faintly discerned with an naked eye, meaning it's been hiding in plain sight all along. Finally, this fort is situated on the mainland approximately 50 miles west of Rhoanook. The location of the concealed fort was quickly named Site X in reference to the expression X marks the spot. While the fort itself has yet to be found presuming it was ever built, archaeological digs haven't covered a few items of interest. Fragments of pottery and bits of metal are indicative of an English presence but much like the findings on Hattress and indisputable link to the Lost Colony has yet to be established. That being said, the research is still ongoing and the smoking gun whatever it may be will perhaps have been found by the time you're watching this. Presuming this is the intended location for the city of Rholy, one has to wonder why was it concealed with a patch? Tempting as it may be to envision some elaborate conspiracy there is a very simple explanation. Remember how in 1608, John Smith sent his rough map of Virginia back to England? Well this is not the original map but an illicit copy. A copy made in secret by the Spanish ambassador and covertly passed along to the King of Spain. So England had good reason to worry about sensitive information such as the location of a fort being intercepted by enemy spies. Another example is how the colony on Rhoanook was concealed through omission. We still don't know the precise location or layout of the colony because it was never indicated on any of the surviving maps. While it continues to be a source of aggravation among historians and archaeologists, this secrecy did serve a purpose as it prevented Spain from ever finding the colony. In fact, Spain continued to search for the colony long after it was lost, so it's unlikely they had anything to do with its disappearance. On the other hand, if the fort was never built, the patch may be precisely what it was always assumed to be. Then again the near invisible symbol drawn on top of the patch strongly implied concealment as opposed to a simple revision. After going through all the available evidence, this is what I'm thinking. So John White left Rhoanook in 1587 when he failed to return the colony was split into two groups. One decapt for sight X, one the other went to live with a friendly croat-toe and to await the governor's return. The region is known to have suffered a severe drought just off the white left, so the relocation may not only have been motivated by diminishing supplies and hostilities, but also by a lack of water and crop production. As years turn into decades, the colonists may have started families with and thus become inseparable from the indigenous people amongst whom they lived. Not only would this explain the disappearance, but also the croat-toe and inscription, the 50 miles into the main as well as the grey eyes of the hattress. While I'm still leaning towards it being fake, I do find it interesting how the darestone was supposedly discovered just a few miles north of sight X. After all, if you're a hoaxer and you want to convince 1930s America that this stone is genuine, why claim you found it so far away from Rhoanook? One should also keep in mind that much of the evidence relies solely on the words and paintings of one man. Parts of white's account could easily be a misinterpretation or exaggeration, so depending on what evidence you regard as credible, other solutions are equally plausible. For instance, some believe the colony went ahead with the original plan and relocated somewhere along the coast of Chesapeake Bay. Others believe they were all lost at sea after a failed attempt to return to England. But these solutions are about as helpful as saying the colony vanished into thin air, without the more localized place of interest to search for corroborating evidence, there is virtually no hope of resolution. So with all that being said, many questions remain. What happened to the three forsaken colonists and the 13 crewmen? Why did Zimalfe Renanda disobey orders and dump the colonists on Rhoanook? Why was one of the two engravings left incomplete? Why was everyone named John as for the most important question of them all? Well, if there is an answer to that question, chances are it lies buried somewhere at Site X just waiting to be found.