Just let me know. In only 2007, this silent black and white video was uploaded by a user in a conspiracy in UFO centric forum called above top secret. The user claimed that the video depicted a disc-shaped UFO, outmaneuvering a fighter jet somewhere off the coast of Mexico in the mid 2000s. They had supposedly gained access to the video while serving onboard a US aircraft carrier and claimed to have smuggled a potentially classified material off the ship. While some members of the forum chose to believe their story, others were not so easily convinced. For instance, the video was hosted on a website belonging to a group of German film students which led some to denounce the clip as an attempted hoax. Even though it was a believed it could be genuine, still complained that it was a totally uninspiring video of a fuzzy dot. Over a decade later, this long forgotten video suddenly resurfaced as part of an article by The New York Times. The video was now linked to a secret government-funded program and was even corroborated by credible eyewitness. What had initially been dismissed as a hoax turned out to be real. The video was added to depict a genuine encounter between US Navy fighter jets and some sort of unidentified craft. A second black and white video of a similar yet completely separate incident was also featured at the beginning of the article, except this one had sound. These two videos, along with a third released a few months later, spread across the internet like wildfire. Common sections and discussion threads were dominated by unrestrained speculation about aliens and paranormal phenomena. Skeptics meanwhile took it upon themselves to analyze every pixel in every frame in the hopes of uncovering some neglected clue that could identify these fussy blobs. Any lingering doubts about the video's authenticity vanished with a release of an official statement by the Department of Defense confirming that the video's depicted real events involving unidentified aerial phenomena. So what exactly are we looking at? The first video was recorded off the Northwestern coast of Mexico in late 2004. The story behind it has been recounted by more than a dozen naval officers and it goes like this. In early November of 2004, a naval strike group led by the aircraft carrier at the USS Nimitz was conducting pre-deployment exercises about a hundred kilometers southwest of San Diego. Starting around a tenth of November, radar technicians of would a guided missile cruiser at the USS Princeton were puzzled by a series of unidentified radar tracks near San Clement Island. The tracks did not resemble any known aircraft and would sporadically appear in groups of five to ten at a time. Suspecting a malfunction of some sort, the recently upgraded spy one radar system was taken offline and recalibrated. Once the system was brought back a line however, the tracks had only become sharper. Among those on board were senior chief operations specialist Kevin Day. It was an expert on the spy one radar system and had eighteen years worth of experience at the time of the incident. Day observed first-hand how these unknown targets alternated between slightly strange and physics-defying maneuvers. Sometimes a cluster of tracks would appear out of nowhere and slowly drift south. They were flying too high to be birds, too slow to be conventional aircraft and did not follow any commercial airways. Other times they would seemingly descend from space and drop all the way down to sea level in mere seconds. These phenomena continued for several days and every time they reappeared the crew would run up to the bridge and use a pair of heavily magnified binoculars to see these tiny specks moving erratically in the distance. On the morning of November the 14th, the crew on board the USS Nimitz were gearing up for a scheduled air defense exercise. They had not yet been informed of the unusual returns picked up by the Princeton. It was a cloudless day and the sea was calm as pilots took to disguise. One of them was Lieutenant Colonel Douglas Curth who was flying a single seat FA-18 fighter jet when he was contacted by the Princeton. He was instructed to investigate an unknown target approaching from the south. The Princeton also wanted to know if he carried any weapons to which the answer was no. Curth made his way to the specified coordinates but did not pick up anything on sensors. As he looked down towards the ocean however, his attention was immediately drawn towards a turbulent patch of water. Curth claimed that seen a roundish disturbance on the ocean which appeared as though something was submerged just below the surface. It reminded him of a submarine or ship slowly sinking into the ocean. The Nimitz strike group did include a nuclear-powered submarine named the USS Lewisville. The Lewisville was in the vicinity when Curth made his observations so the churning may indeed have been caused by a submerging submarine. If not, then whatever was in the water, managed to evade detection by the Lewisville's extremely sensitive sonar. Curth was joined by a squadron of two tandem seats in the FA-18s, the lead aircraft of which was piloted by Commander David Fraver. Much like Curth, Fraver claims to have seen a disturbance on the ocean which he described as having a vaguely cross-like shape. He thought it resembled a downed airliner and described its size as much larger than a submarine. While Curth eventually circled back for the Nimitz, Fraver and his wingman decided to get a closer look. As they began their descent, they noticed a white capsule-shaped craft moving erratically above the disturbance. At first they thought it could be a helicopter, but there were no rotor blades. In fact, it was perfectly smooth. No markings, no exhaust, no protrusions of any kind. The UFO appeared to maintain a consistent altitude but made rapid lateral movements with no visible means of propulsion. According to Fraver, it was a bit smaller than an FA-18 and resembled a giant mint of tic-tac. As Fraver continued to descend, his wingman decided to maintain altitude and kept watching from above. Flying in a spiraling downward motion, Fraver was getting closer and closer until suddenly the UFO re-aligned its axis and began to climb at an incredible rate of speed. Both of them were now flying in a circle. The UFO was coming up while the FA-18 was going down. In an effort to close the distance between them, Fraver made a final aggressive turn before the UFO rapidly accelerated up to hypersonic speed and disappeared in a matter of seconds. As they looked down towards the ocean, it was now perfectly calm. Okay, but what about the video? Well, so Fraver and his wingman made it back to the limits. They landed and ran into a different flight crew preparing to head back out. They told them what they had seen and to be on the lookout for anything out of the ordinary. Soon thereafter, another tandem seat at FA-18 took to the skies. This time, it was outfitted with an advanced, targeting forward-looking infrared camera system. This at-flier pod is controlled by the weapon system's operator seated behind the pilot and the back seat of this flight was Lieutenant Chad Underwood. A few minutes after departing the limits, Underwood detected something on his radar. The unknown target was directly ahead, a few tens of kilometers away. The target's behavior was erratic and unpredictable. Its altitude and airspeed were in constant flux. According to Underwood, it simply did not abide by the known laws of physics. At some point, Underwood managed to get a lock on the target with the at-flier camera, and this is when the much-publicized video was recorded. At the beginning of the video, we see a UFO being tracked in infrared. Underwood then switches to visible light, revealing an out-of-focus, rounded mass in the distance. He then switches back to infrared and alternates between two different zoom levels on multiple locations. Not much happens until the very end of the video when the UFO suddenly disappears after the left-hand side of the screen. As the target was too far away to be seen with an naked eye, neither Underwood nor his pilot ever made visual contact. The Princeton continues to detect anomalous radar tracks for at least two more days. And according to Senior Chief Day, they eventually disappeared near the Mexican island of Guadalupe. In complete isolation, utterly divorced from any and all surrounding context, this video is extraordinarily unremarkable. It's a fuzzy blob against a featureless background. It's only when you place it in the middle of these truly remarkable stories that the video itself becomes remarkable. When skeptics and debunkers claim that this is a distant airplane, I understand why many are so opposed to that explanation. Because the witness accounts say otherwise, a distant airplane can't just zip around the sky as if gravity was nonexistent, it doesn't make any sense. Unfortunately, we don't see any of those physics-defying maneuvers in the video. In fact, this fuzzy blob does not do much of anything until the very end when it suddenly disappears after the left-hand side of the screen. Now, some claim this is due to a sudden acceleration by the UFO, but it could also be something as simple as the camera losing its target lock. It's difficult to tell. Underwood himself is uncertain about what happens at the end as he never made visual contact. The witness accounts mean why they are so extraordinary they are difficult to believe. If any regular person claimed to have seen a tic-tac-shaped UFO moving erratically in the sky, if you would listen. But when that same story is told by some of the most qualified observers on the planet, it makes you wonder. And it wasn't just one or two, these UFOs were either seen or tracked by dozens of experienced aviators and sailors for nearly a week. They were seen from multiple vantage points and tracked by one of the most sophisticated radar systems in the world. To think that all of them are lying or all of them were deceived by some prosaic phenomena seems absurd. At the same time, there is no way to verify what they are saying. We have no choice but to take them at their word. We don't have the radar data, the radio communication logs, nor any corroborating evidence. Well, except for this pixel-deficient footage, I guess. Some of the witnesses claim there was actually a much longer and much higher resolution video than the one we see today. They claim to have seen this video on board the Princeton and that the shape of the UFO was perfectly clear as it violently maneuvered around the screen. What's interesting about this claim is that when the video was first leaked online back in 2007, the anonymous leaker claimed they had four different versions of the video in their possession. Two of them were said to be shorter, but the fourth was said to be twice as long and supposedly showed more UFO movements. Unfortunately, this extended version has never seen the light of day, and if some of the witnesses are to be believed, it likely never will. You see, on the evening of November 14th, all the footage and data from these events were supposedly erased. Witnesses claimed that two men arrived via helicopter who then collected relevant data before having all the tapes and hard drives wiped clean. Witnesses from both the Nimitz and Princeton recall such a visit and insist that nothing like it had ever happened before. This has understandably led to speculations of some sort of cover-up that the sightings with out of top secret military drones or aircraft. While the US military is undoubtedly experimenting with all kinds of cutting-edge technology, it is difficult to believe they possess gravity-defying, hypersonic flying tic-tacks. If so, they would possess technology so far beyond anything known to the public, it would be akin to magic, and this was back in 2004. Don't get me wrong, 2004 was a magical time compared to current year, but it was still aggressively 2004. I really don't know what to make of this story. After reading, watching, and listening to so many interviews with the people who were there, I'm left with a distinct impression that they're telling the truth. The video, on the other hand, does little to support their claims. Sure, this faulty blob may be unidentified, but it's not unexplainable. The second and third videos were recorded off the southeast and coast of the United States in early 2015. While those who recorded a footage have yet to come forward, some of their crewmates and fellow pilots have, and according to them, the story goes like this. In the summer of 2014, a naval strike group led by the aircraft carrier the USS Theodore Roosevelt was conducting pre-deployment exercises summer of the coast of Virginia. Much like with the Nimitz encounters, the first sign of trouble came in the form of anomalous radar tracks. Following a fleet-wide upgrade of aircraft radar systems, pilots had begun to pick up unidentified targets while conducting routine training missions. The tracks were initially dismissed as false positives, but their behavior was unlike anything they had seen before, gravity-defying maneuvers, hypersonic velocities, and other misdefying shenanigans. Attempts to intercept these UFOs were initially unsuccessful. Lieutenant Danny Akoin claims that on two separate occasions he tried but failed to make visual contact. Then one day, a squadron is sent to have narrowly avoided a mid-air collision with one of these UFOs. The two jets had been flying in tandem, no more than a few tens of meters apart, when something flew right in between them. That something was oddly described as a cube encased by translucent sphere. Lieutenant Ryan Graves, who spoke to one of the pilots once they had landed, claims the experience had visibly spooked them, so much so the squadron filed an official safety report. According to Graves, this was far from an isolated incident. These UFOs were allegedly seen by dozens of pilots for several months and could remain airborne for up to 12 hours at the time. Yet despite growing concerns among the Roosevelt crew, training missions continued as if nothing was amiss. By early 2015, the Roosevelt strike group had made it way down to the coast of Florida, which is when the two now famous videos were recorded, both of which are said to be short clips taken from much longer and higher resolution footage. We don't know much about the circumstances as the officers involved have chosen to remain silent, but let's take a look at the first one. So there are a few things done packing up. If we ignore the audio for a moment and focus solely on the visuals, the thing that immediately stands out is the apparent rotation of the UFO. I used the word apparent because some debunkers claim that this rotation is an optical illusion. You see, the Atelier pod is equipped with something known as a de-rotation mechanism. It's meant to counteract the rotation of the camera so that the orientation of the image stays the same, also known as image stabilization. What may not be stabilized, however, are certain artifacts produced by the lens of the camera. You can even try this yourself. A macamert would say light source, rotate the camera, stabilize the footage, and there you go. The orientation of the image is preserved while these spokes of light rotate along with the camera. So much like how the light from this light bulb is producing a lens flare, the infrared radiation from this UFO is said to be producing a lens glare. In other words, the bunker's claim it is the camera and thereby the glare which is rotating, not the UFO itself. While this explanation seems perfectly reasonable to my untrained eyes, things get a bit more confusing once we bring back the audio. But if there's a user, it's rotate. If this rotation is merely the result of image stabilization, why would the two pilots fail to recognize the such? Surely they, if anyone, would know what that looks like. And they're not alone. Both Lieutenant Graves and a coin believe it is the UFO which is rotating. Furthermore, an expert on the ATFLEAR system has very plainly stated that this is not an optical illusion. But this is not the only possible incommence made by the two pilots. There's a whole fleet of them, welcome ASA. My God! We're all going against the wind, the winds are hunching, pointing out the west. So the radar is supposedly detecting a whole fleet of UFOs which are all traveling crosswind. I mean, if what we're looking at is something per se like the blooming exhaust of a jet engine, these comments don't make a whole lot of sense. I would love to hear what these two pilots have to say if they ever decide to come forward. Until then, all we can do is speculate. This is a fun thing about budget. Are you guys looking for it? No, I took an auto-trap. Oh, okay. Oh my God, dude. Oh, I'm going to try. This video may seem very striking at first, but it is arguably the least interesting of the three. Once again, let's ignore the audio for a moment and focus solely on the visuals. Unlike the previous two, the UFO in this one is colder than its surroundings, so the ocean below is radiating more heat than whatever this is. It may look as though the UFO is traveling at high speed, but this is likely the result of parallax. In short, aircraft go fast. Camera fixed on not so fast UFO. UFO appeared to go fast. Some say the UFO is near sea level and therefore the parallax explanation doesn't work, but we can actually derive its altitude using the numbers on screen and find that that is not true. Everything seen in this video is consistent with a balloon or some sort of debris floating in the wind. The commentary by the pilots, however, does once again introduce a bit of confusion. I mean, it seems odd for the pilots to be so excited over something so mundane, but without hearing from the pilots themselves, we can do nothing but speculate. The person responsible for making these videos available to the public is a man named Lou Elisondo. Beginning in 2008, Elisondo was the head of a secret government-funded effort to investigate UFO sightings known as the Advanced Aerospace Threat Identification Program. By late 2017, however, Elisondo had grown so dissolutioned with the government's lack of interest in the program's efforts that he decided to resign. In his resignation letter, Elisondo writes that certain individuals within the government are staunchly opposed to UFO research, that inflexible mindsets and political contention essentially prevented him from doing his job. He portrays the government as virtually unconcerned about an issue which he believes could pose a threat to national security, so much so that he felt it necessary to resign in protest. This seemingly uncarrying attitude was also noted by witnesses of both the Nimitz and Roosevelt encounters. For instance, Lieutenant Ryan Graves recalled that a commander of the Roosevelt strike group seemed completely unfazed by this video. On the day when it was captured, he supposedly looked at it for five seconds, then walked away without saying a word. Some of the senior officers on board Nimitz and Princeton are said to have had an equally muted response. These are very bizarre reactions to potential airspace incursions. You think they'd want to make sure these UFOs are not some kind of threat. The near mid-air collision reported by one of the squadrons from the Roosevelt seems especially concerning. To account for this apparent disinterest, many pointed a severe stigma surrounding the topic of UFOs. Regardless of how inaccurate it may be, the term UFO has for many becomes synonymous with aliens and spaceships. So much so, the government now favors the term UAP specifically to avoid this unwanted association. Whether sighting scope unreported or uninvestigated, the argument is that people choose to look the other way because they're concerned about their reputation. No one wants to be seen as a nutcase and potentially lose out in a promotion. Others believe there could be something a bit more conniving at play, that no serious action is taken because a highly advanced and top-seek-with-drone program is responsible for the sightings. Even some of the witnesses have entertained that possibility. For instance, Sean K. Hill, who was the chief master at Arms on board at Princeton, perceived the inaction of senior staff as a clear sign that the UFOs were known military assets. But as previously mentioned, it is difficult to believe such radical innovation could have taken place in absolute secrecy. We're talking about such advanced technology it would barely make sense in a science fiction novel. Vehicles that can exceed a speed of sound without producing any sonic booms. Vehicles that can drop or climb to virtually any altitude in a matter of seconds. Vehicles that can violently change direction of travel as if inertia was a mere suggestion. None of that should be possible, yet dozens of trained observers claim they witnessed the impossible. The least uncomfortable solution therefore is to simply not believe them. Sure, the witnesses are credible, but they're not incontrovertible. Everything from optical illusions to fault equipment could be used to cast doubt on their extraordinary tales. And without any corroborating evidence, except for this nebulous footage, that is not a difficult task. As such, many government officials may not seem concerned because they genuinely believe there is nothing to be concerned about. Personally, I'm left feeling very conflicted. On the one hand, I find the witness accounts quite compelling. On the other, I find this grainy trilogy of dots in the sky somewhat underwhelming. Sure, the videos are fascinating, but they're also far too ambiguous to provide any decisive answers. I highly recommend that you seek out and listen to some of the witness accounts so that you can judge for yourself. This is very much a developing situation. By the time you watch this video, chances are more information will have been released. According to Alessandro, the Nimitz and Roosevelt encounters are just the tip of the iceberg. Sighting spy military personnel are said to be commonplace. It's just that we rarely hear about them. I can only hope that more evidence is released in the near future, and at least one video depicts something inexplicable. Something that is unidentified because it defies explanation, not because it's too distant, too small, or otherwise too obscure. No but something truly extraordinary. That's what I want to see.