Just let me know. So we reached 3 million subscribers recently. Alright, that's enough excitement for one day, let's answer some questions. How's life? It's pretty great, thank you. When are you releasing your next video? Sometime now in March is the plan. Can you explain your video process and how do you pick your topics? While many topics are recommended by you, the audience and other times I stumble upon it myself. I usually start by reading and researching a lot. If I find something interesting, I start by writing a very bare-bones script of all the key points I want to cover, then I gradually flesh out the script over many weeks or even months until I have something more substantial. If I still like the final draft, I start by gathering audiovisual material, a record narration and throw it all into a magic blender known as After Effects. And I often work on multiple projects at once and jump back and forth between them. What program do you use to make the animations for your videos? Premier Pro, After Effects and Cinema 4D. How long does it normally take for you to find sources to the topics you are talking about in your videos? It depends on the topic. Some sources are readily available online while other times I have to track down some obscure book or magazine which can take many days or weeks. I multiply that by a factor of… who knows? And you'll end up with a lot of time. This is all material that I've collected because I suspected they contained some valuable information or only to find if they did not. If you could go to Mars and never return, would you? Without hesitation, I am in no way qualified to go but given the opportunity I would definitely pay my visit. What do you think of Denmark? It's a wonderful country with wonderful people. Why are you Swedish? I'm not joking, I'm just a bit better. I remember in your Q&A back in 2015 that you didn't want to do this YouTube thing forever, does that idea still stand almost four years later? If not, then what would you want to pursue? As I've said in the past, I'll keep making videos as long as I enjoy making them but if I were to quit right now, I'd probably go back to school and maybe get an arts degree. Either that or apply to become a Mars colonist, I imagine the employment rate is pretty much the same. Without the years of making videos, what have you learned during this experience that you'd love to have known already from the start and can you give any suggestions as to how to get into video editing for someone who wants to get into it but doesn't really know where to start? Well, if I've learned anything making videos for the past seven years, it's that it's important to choose a good channel name, which is why I named my channel Top 10 Memes. As for your second question, when I switched from Sony Vegas to Premiere Pro some years back, I began by watching very specialized tutorials. I'll make text, tutorial, how make text, move, tutorial, how show, image, tutorial, how make image, tutorial, I think you get the idea. Instead of watching a 20 part series or something that cover virtually every aspect of everything there is to know all at once, I just figure out how to do exactly what it is you want to do and I promise you, you will learn everything you need to know along the way. And that's what worked for me at least. Yes, even you with a lot of hard work can learn masterclass editing like this. One of your favorite YouTube channels and do you have any favorite documentary series? I love what Tom Scott is doing, Pauli Matter is great, went over productions, Captain the Solution, all Shift X, Lindsay Ellis, all of them make fantastic videos. As for documentaries, I highly recommend the Vietnam War by Ken Burns and Linnavich and not the most uplifting documentary but it's very well made. What do you do when you're not making videos? Absolutely nothing at all. It is the best. In fact I think I'm gonna go and do that right now, well as soon as I'm done with these questions of course. Do you do this full time if not is it far from becoming a full time job would you ever consider hiring people to help you upload more frequently? This isn't even my full time job and thanks to my lovely patrons I'm doing just fine. I've thought about expanding and hiring employees but there is something to be said for being your own boss. I wish I could upload more frequently but it is what it is. Once one topic you don't feel qualified to make a video about, well as you saw before my math skills are very impressive so I won't touch anything with a lot of complicated math. Mathematics is not my strong suit and I find no joy in working with numbers. I wish I was better at it but I'm not gonna put in the time. I've tried to talk about quantum mechanics a couple of times in the past and I hear by solemnly swear to never ever attempt that again. Rate my cat. Yeah, pretty decent cat. See this is more my league, this is what I'm qualified to talk about. What inspired you to make more documentary themed videos instead of the top 10 list ones was that you enjoy them more because they're more scientific and not so trivial or was the revenue on them just higher. Revenue higher. Now that's a combination of words I haven't heard in a long, long time. Well, I never decided to stop making list videos. I've just found the documentary format to be more suitable for the topics I've covered as of late. It's also a lot more fun, not to be confined to a format where every single video has to be structured in the exact same way. That being said, some videos do work better as a list so I haven't completely abandoned the idea. Besides, I kind of miss talking about more trivial stuff like video games and such, so it's not like I've stopped doing anything I've just taken a break, I guess. Do you think aliens exist? If they do, then do you think they have contact with us? I do think aliens exist, but I doubt we've made contact. These days, I'm leaning towards life is common, but intelligent life is rare. Which video was your favorite to make and why? Got a fact you found for a video that stands out to you? I had a lot of fun making the great silence, but it's always fun to talk about space, so that's cheating, I guess. I had no idea how many times we'd been close to a nuclear accident or even nuclear war when I made a graced by the apocalypse, so that really stood out to me. Favorite film in the last year and what movie are you anticipating the most? I have to say Avengers Infinity War, I did not expect to like that movie as much as I did. I mean, this is the culmination of a decades worth of comic book movies featuring an insane cast of characters and somehow it wasn't garbage. I also liked the favorite, it was really weird and good. And because I liked Infinity War so much, I'm really curious to see what they do with Endgame, but I'm also excited about Brightburn, the new movie from James Gunn. Any more space videos in the works? I always have more space videos in the works. Love your videos, thank you. I just wanted to ask what do you usually do to get out of procrastinating when it takes over? I have found the best way to overcome procrastination is to rid yourself of distractions. I live near the ocean for instance, so during the summer I usually go down to the harbor while making a point of leaving my phone at home. I only bring a laptop with Wi-Fi disabled and then the only way not to be bored is to actually do some work. When summer is nowhere to be found or the weather is like this, I usually end up at some cafe or something. It doesn't always work, but the point is to get away from all distractions and just get started on a project, because once you've begun it is so much easier to continue than it is to start from scratch. You just can't need to kickstart your brain and trick it into doing something productive. What's your least favorite video you've done? Humans, it's pretty bad. And are... Are you still into making music? I sure am, I just can't seem to make complete songs that I actually want to release anymore. It's incredibly frustrating, but yeah, it's very much a hobby, of mine still. Are some of the facts you say turn out to be wrong? Well said and definitely, I still remember talking about Tom and Jerry in a video about Disney many years ago, only to realize Tom and Jerry was created by MGM and Hannah Barbara and has absolutely nothing to do with Disney. I've been meaning to make a video in which I correct some of the mistakes I've made in past videos, so let me know if that's something you'd like to see. I think it could be interesting. Have there been any video ideas that just didn't work, causing them to be scrapped? I haven't scrapped too many videos, but it happens every now and again. Most recently I worked on a video about virtual reality, but it ended up being kind of boring, so I just started on something new. This animation from The Great Silence was actually supposed to be the intro to that video. Thank you for all the questions, thanks to everyone who's subscribed and keep on watching despite my terrible upload schedule. I can only hope you're having a great day and I'll see you all again soon. Bye.