This video was made possible by NordVPN. Click the link in the description to get an exclusive deal with four extra months. Head over to the merch store to pick up some character pins, calendars, and more. Also, ever needed to enact vengeance on your enemies, but always felt too shy? Well, fear not. Little Hannibal is here. Support our channel by heading over to oversimplify.utus.com And buying your very own pocket-sized piece of vengeance. Our exclusive Hannibal figure is in limited supply. So get it. Quick. Call the problem like Hannibal. In a crisis such as this, the rumours often turn to religion. What's going on? Or the gods mad at us? The gods must be mad at us. But why? Why, no why? Two of the Vestal virgins broke their sacred oath and lost their virginity. That's why Hannibal is kicking our ass. What should we do with them? We'll appease the gods! Barry them alive! Who did they even point? It was those guys! Huh? What should we do with them? Beat them to death! Needless to say, the rumours were freaking out. Okay, now that that's out of our system, let's go find a real solution. The real solution, first of all, involved raising a new army. Remember, that Hannibal had wiped out the biggest army Rome had ever fielded, possibly 20% of Rome's military-aged men. Rome needed to replace those losses. And fast before Hannibal arrived at their gates. But where would those replacements come from? Rome had a few ideas. Quick! Lower the age of conscription! You! Put down those Digimons! You're a soldier now! Enlist all these slaves with the promise of freedom! And equip them with all these religious weapons and armor! Anything we've got! All right, men, you are Rome's last line of defense! Man the walls! After the Earth's shattering defeat at Canni, the Romans expected Hannibal to arrive at their gates any day now. In Hannibal's camp, the mood was triumphant. We did it! We won! So when do we march on Rome? Today, I'm free in 10 minutes. Whoa, whoa, slow down. We're not going to Rome. We're staying right here. Are you an idiot, Hannibal? No. I'm smart. We don't need to march on Rome. Because after what we did, the Romans are definitely going to surrender. Watch. Hey, Jimbub. Yes, sir? Go to Roman Discuss Pistons. Yes, sir. Hey, uh, I'm here to discuss Pistons. Piss off! They told me to piss off! What? They didn't surrender? No! And they were mean! Hannibal was learning that Rome had an unprecedented attitude towards surrender. Even when Hannibal offered to ran some thousands of prisoners back to Rome, a pretty common practice in ancient warfare. The Romans refused, opting to let their own men be sold into slavery, rather than paying a penny to the enemy. It was clear that in order to defeat Rome, you had to annihilate them. If any Roman man was still standing, you had it yet won. But still, Hannibal decided not to march on Rome, and it was a controversial decision. Even one of his own commanders famously told him, Hannibal, you know how to win a battle, but you do not know how to win a war. From Hannibal's perspective, perhaps he knew his army was designed to survive behind enemy lines. And so chaos! It may not have been well equipped to undertake a risky siege of one of the most fortified cities on Earth, plus with many of the southern cities defecting to his side after Canni. Hannibal likely thought things were going pretty well. As is, we'll stay the course. Okay, so the Romans didn't surrender after three major defeats, but surely they'll surrender after four. Unfortunately for Hannibal, however, after Canni, the Romans well and truly weren't there less than... Well, would you look at that? Remind me, who was it that said Hannibal was too dangerous to fight? You. And who said we shouldn't fight him directly? You and who tried to fight him directly? Us. And what happened? We lost 20% of our military aged men. That's right. So tell me, when Hannibal approaches, what do we do? We run away. I'm a genius. Clop for me. After Canni, Fabius Maximus kind of became the unofficial leader of Rome. Even if others were elected consul, his influence was on paralleled and Rome quickly reverted to the Fabian strategy of avoiding Hannibal. They knew they couldn't defeat him, so instead they hoped they could at least contain him. They raised an impressively large number of men, partly by enlisting teenagers, slaves, and criminals. And rather than trying to fight Hannibal, they instead turned their attention towards those treacherous southern cities that had switched sides. Thanks for joining the winning team, guys. Here's the deal. All you have to do is provide me some troops and defend your own city, since I'll be too busy to defend it for you. Now, I'm going to briefly turn around, look this way, and when I look back, you better not be being massacred by the Rome. We're all for gonna say! The Romans spread out their newly formed legions and began attacking the southern cities here. There, everywhere. The southern cities expected to have Hannibal's protection and Hannibal was inundated with requests for help. He was forced to run around southern Italy, trying to encourage defection while rescuing his own allies. But when he showed up, the Romans would often leave, only to come back. The second he went away again. And as these southern cities found themselves being punished severely by the Romans, they began to realize that joining Hannibal may not have been such a good idea. Hey! You think you're so big? Attacking my allies? Why don't you come out and face me? Because you're scary! The fickle southern cities frequently switched sides depending on who appeared to be winning, and the whole situation became a nightmare for Hannibal to control, playing a constant game of Roman Wacomal to fend off the enemy armies. Having not long ago seemed near extinction, the Romans had managed to turn this situation around by placing Hannibal in a clever predicament. If he left southern Italy, the southern cities would likely capitulate to Rome, meaning he couldn't leave. And since the Romans wouldn't fight him, he couldn't inflict any more dangerous defeats. For now, Hannibal had been muzzled. Southern Italy had been his prize for his impressive Italian campaign, but those clever Romans found a way to take his prize and turn it into his prison. With the Fabian strategy neutralizing Hannibal for now, the Romans were freed up to refocus their attention to other fronts. This whole time, while we've been discussing Hannibal and the Italian campaign of the Second Punic War, fighting had actually been occurring elsewhere. For example, in 216 BC, the Romans had sent an army north to punish the Celtic tribes that had joined Hannibal. However, as the Romans entered the Latana forest, little did they know, those clever Celts had set up a trap. The Celts dropped trees on them, decimating the Romans, and they even took the commander's head to use as a religious sippy cup. So that went pretty bad. Whoa, very bad. But thankfully, in other theaters, things were going a bit better. For example, let's look at Sicily. After Can I, internal chaos in Syracuse caused this longtime Roman ally to switch sides, because being a winner is more fun. The Carthaginians also landed troops, hoping to retake their lost island, while Roman pro-consult Claudius Marcellus moved in to besiege Syracuse. The siege was a brutal slug for the Romans, largely due to the presence of one famous scientist and mathematician, Archimedes. He lived in Syracuse at the time, and he invented a variety of clever contraptions to defend the city. There was a giant claw that could grab and destroy Roman ships, and purportedly even a big mirror that could magically ignite them. The Carthaginian forces on the island attempted to come to Syracuse's rescue, but luckily for the Romans, they all got diarrhea, and then died. Finally, in this city itself, the day of a big annual religious festival came, and the Syracuseans said, well-fellas, we've been holding off the Romans for over a year now. I think we've earned ourselves a little party. Sir, we're still under a massive siege. Are you sure? They'll probably take advantage of it. Well, Carl, I'm taking advantage of the open bar. Sir, they've got battering rams. Well, Carl, I'm ramming these or derfs into my mouth. Sir, they'll tear down our walls. Well, Carl, I'm tearing it up on the dance floor. Sir, they're literally at the gates. Well, Carl, I'm literally at the cheese platter. Marcellus took advantage of the drunken festivities, stormed the city, and plundering in sued. In the chaos, Marcellus ordered Archimedes becaptured alive. Some sources say Roman troops entered Archimedes' home, and they were like, hey, man, are you the math guy? Go away. I'm drawing circles. Look, I just need to know if you're the nerd. Rombro, get out of here. You're messing up my circles. Now is not a good time to draw circles. It's always a good time for circles. I love circles. Either stop drawing the circles or I kill you. I choose the circles. Despite not securing Archimedes, by 210 BC, the Romans did secure Sicily, and also put down a Carthage-supported rebellion on nearby Sardinia. Two Roman successes, and there were more to come. After Can I, King Philip V of Macedon saw an opportunity. He was concerned with recent Roman expansion into Illuria, and so when he saw Hannibal annihilating the Romans in Italy, he said, oh my gosh, hey! Where you at? Oh my gosh, you're so cool. Let's form an alliance and annihilate the Romans together. Eh, sure. Huh? Yes! Hey, hey! Hannibal hoped to secure Philip's help in fighting Rome, but a Roman army was sent to the region, stirred up Philip's other Greek opponents, and essentially kept Philip bogged down in Greece for the entire duration of the war. Another kind of Roman success. But the main front, Rome was hoping to push Carthage back in. Was Spain. The riches of Spain made it one of Carthage's most valuable possessions, and the Romans were eager to weaken it. Remember way back at the start of the war, the consul's skipio was supposed to go to Spain, but ended up rushing back to Italy when he realized Hannibal was crossing the Alps. He then faced Hannibal at Tachinus and had to be rescued by his son. Well, after he recovered from his wounds, he proceeded with the original plan and joined his brother in Spain. There, the two skipio brothers fought a successful campaign against Hannibal's brother, Hasdribal. Over the next few years, they won a number of key victories, even taking Segundum, the city that had kick-started this entire war. Yet more, Roman success. A trend appeared to be emerging. Whenever the Romans fought anyone other than Hannibal, they usually came out on top. Perhaps these other fronts would be the key to Rome taking back control of this war. Perhaps it was time for Rome to return to their old ways of being the aggressive go getters. And perhaps it would help if Rome had a Hannibal of their own. Skipio, the younger, was the son of Puglius Skipio, currently fighting in Spain. This made him a member of one of Rome's most prestigious families, not much is known of his childhood, although there is one story of how he was getting hot and heavy with a young lady, only to have his dad barge in and drag him out, wearing nothing but a cloak. This story was written by Roman poet to make Skipio look bad, but by modern standards, has ended up making him look pretty rad. My guess is if Rome had a high school football team, Skipio would be the quarterback. Skipio was only 18 when the Second Punic War broke out. He was at the Battle of Tachinus, where he famously rescued his father, and he was one of the survivors of the Battle of Cana, after which he threatened to cut down any men who dared to abandon Rome. He was a natural leader and up to his ears in Spunk, and therefore he rose through the Roman ranks, shockingly fast. We need a new military Tribune, but Hannibal has killed so many men running out of options. Put me in, Coach! Skipio, you're only 20. You can't be a Tribune. Come on, Coach! Put me in. Well, you do have a lot of Spunk. All right, you're hired. RAAA! We need to elect a new Eda. Who do we have left? Put me in, Coach! Skipio, you don't meet the minimum age requirements. I got this, Coach! I got this. Well, okay then. You're in... BAAA! Ugh, my room's a mess. I got a cook dinner. Oh, and would you look at that? My fly's down. Life sucks! Put me in, Coach. Wow, you're so s... Punk. When Skipio was 25, however, he received some bad news. His father and uncle in Spain had both been defeated in battle, and shockingly, both of them were killed. The news must have been devastating for the young Skipio, but it was also devastating for Rome, as almost all of their Spanish games were wiped away. Okay, listen up! We need someone to go and replace the Skipio's in Spain. So, who's up for it? Come on, who's gonna go? Fabius. Spain seems unwinnable. There's no glory to be had there. Yeah, the glory is here, defending the homeland from Hannibal. Well, somebody has to go. I said, well, somebody has to go. Skipio was eager to be the one to go and replace his father and uncle in Spain. However, there was concern amongst the older senators. You're only 26! You can't lead a military campaign. And you're 71. You can't stand up without a little yurndripling down your leg. Skipio didn't meet the typical requirements for the position, but as the only person willing to go, this young piece of hot Roman meat was unanimously elected pro-console and sent to lead the Roman armies in Spain. He hoped to carry out a campaign as impressive as Hannibal's had been in Italy. In fact, Skipio, rather admired the one I general. Skipio, you've got a Hannibal poster in your room? Yes, but he's the enemy. I'll let you in on a secret, Billy. You know how we're gonna win this war? By marching straight at the enemy? No, that's the old way. We've got to be less Roman and a little more Hannibal. Hey, by the way, don't just barge into my room. That's an infringement of my privacy. Privacy. Privacy, is a well-skipio. If it's privacy you want, then you, my friend, need board VPN. Don't touch me. How would you like to be innocently downloading inspirational photos of Nicholas Cage only to realize it's now us stealing your data and telling all your friends you still sleep between your parents? Because of scowy dreams. Yeah, didn't think so. And that's why you need NordVPN. With a single click, NordVPN connects you to secure servers around the world, keeping you safe from malware and other online threats. Their threat protection pro features go the extra mile in preventing your data being stolen by scanning your downloads for malware, blocking malicious websites, and even detecting fake online shops. Dolceandbanana.com. I don't think so. But that's not all. With NordVPN, you're not just protected. You can also unlock better deals in other regions and access content that isn't available in your country. So get protected today by heading to NordVPN.com. Slash over-simplified and grab an exclusive deal with four extra months for free. That's NordVPN.com. Slash over-simplified. And as always, you'll be supporting my channel. So thank you. Now where were we? Oh yeah. Hannibal contained a young piece of hot Roman meat sent to lead the Roman armies in Spain. Skip you was charismatic, extremely confident, bald, and probably most importantly of all. He thought differently from other Roman generals. So, Skipy, what's the plan? Don't call me that. We're Roman. So same thing as usual, right? We march straight at the enemy, right? Get this, Billy. No, we don't. Skipio was a real outside the box thinker. There were three main cartaginian armies in Spain, two led by Hannibal's brothers, Hasdribal and Maga, and another led by Hasdribal Gisco. Most Roman generals might have looked at these armies and said, I just got to, you know, march straight at these guys and kick their ass and stuff. But not Skipio. At a time when many believed winning battles, one wars, one of Skipio's greatest strengths was an ability to see the overall strategy behind his actions. He knew that Spain was the closest thing Hannibal had to a base of support. With its mass resources and manpower, it's where Hannibal likely hoped to get supplies and reinforcements from. Spain's base of support was the city of New Carthage, the most fortified city on the peninsula, perfectly positioned to communicate with and receive supplies from Africa. And so, if Skipio managed to take New Carthage, he could take Spain. And if he took Spain, then maybe Hannibal would fall to Skipio. Spain wasn't just some side show. It was the main show, and it all rested on New Carthage. But a surprise attack on Carthage's capital city in Spain? It was a ridiculous idea. Even if you pull off the seven-day forced march, pass the Carthage and the armies to New Carthage. Once you get there, you'd only have a couple weeks to take the city, before the Carthage and the city arrives to kick your ass. Seges of cities that fortified usually took months. If not years. So, Skipio, how are you going to pull this off? Well, first of all, to make sure the surprise plan stayed hidden, Skipio kept it a total secret, even from his own men. Where are we going, Skipio? I'm not telling you. Is it Disneyland? I'm not telling you. I think that means we're going to Disneyland. This secrecy kept the Carthage Indians from preemptively reinforcing the city. As a result, New Carthage was left under garrisoned. Because the Carthage Indians believed it to be kind of naturally impenetrable. It was surrounded on three sides by a lagoon, and only accessible the a narrow isthmus. What's an isthmus, you ask? Maybe. Read a book. All right, Skipio, you made it to New Carthage. Now the other Carthage Indian armies are only a 10-days march from coming and kicking your ass. Just what were you thinking? Well, Skipio had learned something crucial. Every afternoon, the Tights made the lagoon around New Carthage, briefly shallow enough to cross. So he ordered a large diversionary attack on the main city gates, distracting the city's defenders. Then a small infiltration force traversed the lagoon, climbed beyond guarded northern walls, and entered the city. They ambushed the guards and opened the city gates to the rest of Skipio's army. And just like that, New Carthage had fallen. In a single day, Skipio had taken Carthage's capital city in Spain, and he made it. Look easy. With it, he seized much of Carthage's war supplies, several silver mines near the city, and various powerful Iberian tribes even joined his side. And now he was in a great position to take on the other Carthage Indian armies in Spain. Wow, Skipio, you're amazing. Don't call me that. How'd you know the lagoon would get shallow? It's almost like you speak to the gods. No, I told him. All the local farmers know about the... Yes, that's it. I speak to the gods. Wow! Skipio had no problem allowing his men to think he was divinely inspired. Roman writers also tell us another of Skipio's traits. He was apparently quite merciful in victory, and often protected the inhabitants of captured cities. Spencer! What are you doing? Well, I was just about to murder this family. Hey, bad Spencer! No! Can I at least kill the dad? No. What about the... No! Oh, you're mean! The Carthage Indian generals in the region must have been shocked at the loss of their capital city. There was now a terminator in Spain, and he was coming. In 208 BC, he made a move on Hezdribal, hoping to defeat him. Before the other Carthage Indian armies could come and link up, when Hezdribal heard Skipio was coming, he said, Hezdribal did this sensible thing, and climbed a big hill for safety. Hey! Get down here! I want to kill you. That chance, Vin Diesel! Well, he doesn't have to be rude. So what's the plan then, Skipio? This time, we march straight up and add him. Right? Right, Skipio? Billy? No! Oh! Skipio once again displayed a distinctly not-roman approach to fighting. When instead of marching straight up and add him, Skipio famed a frontal skirmish, only to pull off a surprise uphill in Belmont. Not an easy thing to do, but Skipio had trained his army to pull off maneuvers. That typical Roman armies couldn't. After the battle, the defeated Hezdribal fled Spain, hoping to link up with his brother Hannibal in Italy. And Hannibal desperately needed the help. As Skipio was dominating in Spain, Hannibal struggles in southern Italy, continued. He was convinced that if he just received ample supplies and reinforcements, he could reverse his fortunes and get back to kicking Rome's ass. But for the remainder of the war, he would suffer a frustrating lack of support from the Carthage in the Senate. After Cannae, Hannibal had sent his brother, Mago, to Carthage, where he famously poured out golden rings taken from fallen Roman knights. He told the Senate that with reinforcements, Hannibal could finish the job, but a growing faction in the Senate possibly jealous of Hannibal's rising influence, opposed sending any help. In the end, a large number of the reinforcements gathered for Hannibal now ended up being diverted to stop Skipio in Spain. Just as he had hoped, Skipio's campaign in Spain was actively harming Hannibal in Italy. However, those reinforcements meant that when Skipio made a move on the remaining Carthage in the United States, they now likely outnumbered him. With the odds heavily stacked against him, it would take some serious skill to win this battle. This time, we're going to march straight at them, right? No, Billy! The preceding battle of Aleppo is often considered Skipio's masterpiece, because it was positively oozing with deception and trickery. First, both sides spent several days forming up and facing off without actually fighting. On each day, Skipio placed his strongest Roman legions in the center, with his weaker Iberian allies on the sides. Seeing this, the Carthaginians were like, this guy's an idiot, we've seen his plan. His strongest troops are going to be in the center, so let's form all of our battle plans based on this information. I'm sure he won't change anything at the last minute. Then, when the day of battle came, Skipio woke up the Carthaginians with an early morning attack, causing them to rush out of camp without breakfast. When the Carthaginians lined up with their strongest troops in the center to meet Skipios, they were stunned to find that Skipio had completely reversed his order. The weaker Carthaginian sides now found Skipio's strongest bearing down on them. Then, in an extremely impressive maneuver, the well-trained Roman wings even stretched out during their approach, hitting the Carthaginians from the sides. The Carthaginian center could have turned to help, but Skipio had ordered his center to approach so slowly that Carthagin's center could do nothing, but just stand and wait. In this way, the outnumbered Skipio had cleverly controlled events so that the bulk of the strongest Carthaginian troops couldn't even fight during the battle. He had completely removed them from the equation. The incredible Skipio had inflicted a monumental defeat on a much larger enemy force, and the Battle of Olipa was the final nail in the coffin for Carthaginian Spain. Yet more tribes people continued to side with the Romans, and the remaining Carthaginians retreated to the coast and eventually fled the peninsula. And would you look at that? In just a few years, the incredible young Skipio had turned Spain completely red. The Carthaginians must have been stunned. His Spanish campaign had almost been as impressive as Hannibal's campaign in Italy. In fact, see if any of this sounds familiar. In Spain, Skipio had used the environment of the battlefield to his advantage. He staged ambushes by concealed troops. He treated local tribes people well, earning their friendship. He even once forced his enemy to come out and fight him without breakfast. Each and every one of these tactics were possibly borrowed from a certain one-eyed general. In all the battles, Skipio had fought against Hannibal. It seemed he may have been taking notes. Hey, Skipio! What? Stop stealing my tactics! I'm 700 miles away! I can't hear you! What did you say? What? What? Better yet. Skipio's achievement in taking a well-fortified city plus his understanding of the overall strategy has led some historians to argue. He wasn't just as good as Hannibal. Skipio may actually have been better. This young man, who many in Rome had doubted, had just shut those s**tly billings. Right. The flip-up. Near years ago, it looked like Rome had no chance of even surviving this war. But now, the momentum of war was shifting astonishingly fast. And for Hannibal in Italy, things continued to head south. Before Skipio had even gone to Spain, the Romans had placed Capua, Hannibal's largest city in Italy, under a dangerous siege. And in order to rescue it, Hannibal needed to take drastic action. Fast. Man, everything's falling apart. Fine. I'll do it! Do what? Yeah, yeah. You've convinced me. A march on Rome. Hannibal, that conversation was five years ago. It's too late. No one's trying to convince you to march on Rome. I said I'll do it! Quit nagging me! Hannibal finally marched on Rome, hoping it might draw the Romans away from Capua. The Romans saw Hannibal approaching their city. And they freaked the hell out. Hannibal is said to have closely approached the city walls, inspecting the defenses. As the Romans inside, quivered in their togas. However, Hannibal probably knew he had no chance of taking the city. The whole thing was at faint, and Hannibal soon left. The Romans famously coined the phrase, Hannibal, is at the gates to describe a moment of crisis or severe desperation. But for accuracy's sake, the phrase should probably be, Hannibal is at the gates. But don't worry, it's just a faint to draw the Romans away from Capua. And it didn't even work, because the Romans stayed at Capua, and the Capulans misunderstood and thought Hannibal had abandoned them. And so, they surrendered this city. But apparently that's not as catchy. Despite a few successes, including an ambush in 208 PC, where Hannibal managed to kill both consuls in one go, Hannibal was slowly but steadily, losing his grip on southern Italy. Even Hasdribal, who had fled Spain to join Hannibal, never reached his brother. He made his own dramatic crossing of the Alps, just as Hannibal had done. But unlike Hannibal, the second Hasdribal arrived in Italy, he was immediately. Ulverized, the Romans then took his head, and threw it over the walls into his brother's camp. Hannibal was becoming extremely isolated. After his impressive conquest of Spain, Skipio returned to Rome a hero. And when the election came for next year's consuls, despite not meeting the typical requirements, Skipio won in a landslide. But the question now was, what would he do next? All right, what's your plan then, Skipio? You're going to go fight Hannibal now, right? Get this, Fabius. No. Skipio's plan remained the same as before. Don't attack the monster directly. Attack his base of support, which now happened to be Carthage itself. That's right, Skipio would invade Africa. However, Skipio understood that any invasion of Africa would stand a much better chance if he could secure an alliance with one of the African tribes. Throughout the war, Carthage's far superior Numidian cavalry, which came from this part of Africa, had played a critical role in winning battles. Numidia was divided between two rival kings. In the east, the king Syfax had sympathized with Rome for much of the war. And so at some point, Skipio visited Syfax to ratify a treaty. It just so happened, however, that the Carthage in general has your Volgisco, whom Skipio had fought in Spain, also arrived at the exact same time. And so Syfax invited both Skipio and Gisco for a meal. The two men fought for Syfax's alliance, and by Roman accounts, Skipio was positively charming. Come on, Syfax. Stick with us, Romans. We'll build a naked statue of you. Very enticing. If you join our Syfax, we'll give you a 2% discount on Figs. You like Figs, don't you? It... Not really. Hey Syfax, check this out. Wow! Hey Syfax, check this out. Did he just defecate? I believe he did. Well, Skipio, you clearly are the most charming man in the Mediterranean. My alliance is... Syfax, I'll let you marry my extremely hot daughter. Yours! Hominah, Hominah! Unable to compete with Syfax's libido, Skipio instead made contact with Syfax's rival, the other Numidian King, Massanisa, who was a long time ally of Carthage. Skipio told Massanisa, if you join the Romans, I'll help you defeat Syfax and become the ultimate Numidian King. And so Massanisa was now on team row. Good job, Skipi. With a Numidian alliance solidified, Skipio prepared for his invasion of Africa. He raised a volunteer force that included many of the disgraced survivors from Canine, and he set sail. Well, Terry, and he news from Italy, has Hannibal won the war yet. Here's Skipi! Hey! Hey! Oh my God! The Roman landing sent a clear message to the Carthage Indians. You don't invade us. No, no. We invade you. For the first time in the war, the Carthage Indian homeland was under threat, and the Carthage Indians needed to defeat Skipio at all costs. They gathered a huge army, led by Hezribogisco, with allied new midiants led by Syfax, and they ordered them to get Skipio the help off their continent. Storces say at this point, Skipio was severely outnumbered. Skipio, that army's huge! There's no way we can beat off all these men. How are we gonna beat off all these men vigorously? Hup! And while maintaining eye contact. As always, Skipio had a plan to deal with the larger enemy force. It just so happened that Syfax was offering to try and broker peace between the Romans and the Carthage Indians. And Skipio smelled an opportunity. He sent a Roman envoy to Syfax's camp. And when they got there, Syfax was like, Hey guys, welcome to the enemy camp! Just before we begin negotiations, a small safety demonstration. As you can see, our huts are made of grass and reeds. Very flammable. If there was even a single spark, this whole place would become a raging inferno. And all my men would burn alive. Very interesting. The Roman troops then reported back to Skipio about the new median camp, its construction, and most importantly, its flammability. Then, the following night, as the sun was setting over the beautiful African plains, and the Carthage Indians got all comfy in their beds, they began to gently dream of Carthage Indian figs and child sacrifice. Good night, Carthage Indians. Good night, Syfax and Gisco. Good evening, Skipio. In the night, shadowy Roman figures approached the new median camp. As the new medians lay in their beds, Skipio executed his plan. The camp erupted into flames with the flammable wooden huts. The fires spread terrifyingly fast. Men were burned in their beds. Those who were in a panic, believing the fire to have been some kind of terrible accident, rushed to the exits without their weapons and armor. Those who saw the fire from the Carthage Indian camp also rushed out on armed. And when they got there, there he was. Skipio, the Romans, and their steel. The terrified Carthage Indians were massacred, and with heavy casualties, Hasterval and Syfax fled the scene of the disaster. Skipio followed this incredible success with another victory against the pair at the Battle of the Great Plains. After that, Masanise chased his rival Syfax into his kingdom, where Syfax was captured. Masanise was now the ultimate new median king. He entered Syfax's capital city. He seized Syfax's palace. He even married Syfax's wife. And when Skipio got mad at him for marrying a Carthage Indian girl, he then poisoned his wife. Boys will be boys. Having defeated the Carthage Indian armies in Africa, almost nothing now stood between Skipio and Carthage and the Carthage Indians were freaking out. What do we do? What do we do? There's only one thing left to do. Recall him. Well Hannibal, you've been here in Italy for 16 years. This is practically your home. You're basically Italian. Yes Gerald, and I've had such a lovely time. I ate spaghetti. Did I this so with my hands? I've committed my whole life to this campaign. And once Rome has fallen, it'll all have been worth it. Hannibal, you have to return to Carthage. Your Italian campaign has been for nothing. Your whole life has been a waste! Noooo. Imagine being Hannibal in this moment. You left Carthage when you were nine. You probably barely even recognized your own homeland. The kingdom he had built in Spain with his father? Gone. And now his Italian campaign. His vengeance. Was it really? All for nothing. But that was that. Carthage was under threat, and Hannibal had to protect his home city as he left Italy in Rome. There was celebration, but also some trepidation. Now, Scipio would have to face Hannibal in Africa where Hannibal would have home advantage. While Hannibal was on his way, the Carthaginian stalled for time and approached Scipio for peace talks. Hey, uh... Look, we never meant to start an all-out two-decade long war, but you did. No, that was Hannibal. He's to blame for all of this. Well, all right then. Sign this peace treaty. Oh, okay. Uh, let me just, uh, just get my signature right on there. He's here. Yes! Oh, look who's here, you bald prick! You're so dead now, Scipio. Don't come in there! After Carthagin's proposed peace, only to then go back on it, the normally merciful Scipio was enraged. He began refusing to accept town's surrender, and instead began burning everything to the ground, selling everyone into slavery. Hannibal, he's burning our towns. Go stop him! Guys, he's obviously trying to learn me out there to fight on those flat plains, where his Numidian cavalry will give him the advantage. It's a trick. Well, it's working. Go and fight him. It's obviously a trap. And we're falling for it! Go and fight him! Hannibal's set out to meet Scipio in the Western Plains, and here came Scipio's final test. Finally, the teacher would face the student, the two greatest generals of all time. In one last decisive battle, would Hannibal's genius still shine through? Or would Scipio prove that he had surpassed the master? Before battle, the two great generals rode out from their camps and met in person for the first time. Hannibal, I'm a huge fan. I thought you'd have more hair, and I thought you'd have more eyes. Touche? They then had a conversation, which I'll paraphrase. Hannibal said, at the start of this war, I had great fortune in Italy. But look at me now, a sad old man, who, like other sad old men, failed to conquer Rome. Your fortune can change rapidly Scipio. You should consider negotiating a piece rather than risking it all in one last fight against me. Very eloquently put, Scipio then replied, You negotiate, negotiate what? I took Spain. I'm about to burn your pathetic city to the ground. What could you offer me in negotiations? I already have it all. Ah! Seriously though Hannibal, I am such a big fan. And so it was settled. The two great generals would face off one last time in the epic battle of Zama. Scipio gave his men, consisting of many survivors from canine, at pre-battle speech, telling them not only would they gain redemption, but they could become masters of the world. Hannibal told his men, probably nothing, because most of them didn't even speak the same language. As the two armies lined up for battle, something interesting became clear. Hannibal had more infantry and hoped to use them to brute-strength the Romans. But Scipio had the nimble new midi and cavalry and hoped to pull off an embellishment. It was a complete role reversal of canine. As the battle began, Hannibal made his first move. He sent his 80 war elephants to smash through and weakened the Roman infantry. Scipio had the perfect response. He had altered his formation to create passages between the Roman manoples. His light troops stepped aside at the right moment, revealing the gaps ahead of the charging elephants. Elephants, if given the choice between a suicide charge into spears or a nice clean escape, will probably choose the escape. And that's what happened. Some elephants were so frightened from the noise that they even turned and smashed back into the Carthaginian cavalry, which the Roman cavalry then engaged. Your move, Hannibal. Hannibal wasn't an idiot. He knew that he was fighting superior new midi and cavalry on open plains. So when his weaker cavalry ended up being routed from the battlefield, he probably wasn't surprised and hoped the Roman cavalry would be learned as far from the battlefield as possible. Because his infantry needed time to do a clever little job. Hannibal had been a miracle advantage and he had positioned his army in three lines. The weaker troops were at the front, while his best men, the army that had been with him in Italy, were in the rear. As the Romans smashed into the weaker front lines, they managed to cut through them, but suffered losses and exhaustion in doing so. The same with Hannibal's second line, so that by the time the Romans reached Hannibal's superior third line, the two sides may have now been about equal in number. But the exhausted Romans had just fought an entire battle to get there, while the remaining Carthaginians were fresh and ready to go. Hannibal was still a genius. And this is where the final race began. Could Hannibal's stronger infantry finish off the Romans before the Roman cavalry returned from their pursuit? Who would be quicker? The Carthaginian infantry or the Roman cavalry? The answer? The cavalry. They had called off their pursuit just in time to turn around and hit Hannibal from the rear. And that was the deciding move. As the sandwiched Carthaginians were hacked to pieces, Hannibal knew he had lost and he escaped the battlefield. It was a battle that some historians say was well fought on both sides. Both showed their genius, but fortune fell in the favor of Skipio. With just a few thousand Roman casualties compared to 40,000 Carthaginians, Skipio had won. Hannibal advised the Carthaginian Senate that it was time to surrender. 17 years of war, finally over. The terms room placed on Carthage were harsh. They lost territory and were prohibited from starting any more wars with anyone without Rome's explicit permission. Carthage basically became a weak Roman client state. And what of these two military geniuses? Well, Skipio returned to Rome triumphant. For his victory in Africa, he was given the title, Skipio, Africanus. He had delivered Rome from an existential threat. And so, from here on out, he was primed to dominate Roman politics. He was even offered to become consul for life, but he humbly refused. Politics being what it is, however, jealousy eventually grew. Skipio and his family ended up battling accusations of corruption. And Skipio, possibly becoming tired of Roman politics, retired to a nice country house by the coast. Hannibal also took a leading role in Carthaginian politics after the war. But again, due to jealousy, factionalism, and the possibility of arrest by the Romans, he eventually entered exile. He spent the remainder of his years out east, even advising enemies of Rome. Rome's hatred of Hannibal endured, and they never stopped hoping to someday capture the monster. One story is told of how when a much older Hannibal was chilling in the city of Ephesus, a Roman delegation was sent to the city. And in that delegation was Skipio, Afrikanis. The two men met for the second time, and they seemed to have gotten along quite well. Skipio asked Hannibal, who he thought the three greatest generals of all time were. Hannibal placed Alexander the Great in number one, Pyrus of a Pyrus in number two, and in third place, himself, Skipio then asked, and what if you had defeated me at Zama? Well, Skipio, then I would have been the greatest general of all time. Please call me Skippy. Eventually, around 183 BC, Hannibal, now in his 60s, came under threat of Roman capture. After a long life, he chose to take some poison. According to Livy, his last words, let us now relieve the Romans of the anxiety they have so long experienced, since they think it tries their patience too much to wait for an old man's death. Wow, Hannibal, what a dignified end. Gross. And there you have it. The Second Punic War. Finally, done. It took 17 years to end the war, and on a personal note, making these videos, has also taken 17 years off my life. Carthage began to recover from the war, shockingly fast, however, and anxieties over Carthage would remain in Rome. In particular, one senator would begin calling for one last crusade against Carthage, to end the threat once and for all. He famously began to end all of his speeches with one singular phrase, one of the most famous phrases in Roman history.