This video was made possible by Total War 3 Kingdoms, the brand new strategy game from the multi-award winning Total War series. Support my channel by using the link in the description down below to buy the game on Steam. Also, new merch available now in the store, including a mystery new character pin, I wonder who it could be. Ancient China The sun is shining, the birds are singing, the children are playing in the village square. What a wonderful time to be alive! Hey, the yellow river flooded again and destroyed all your crops. And also were being raided by nomadic tribesmen. And also this period of Chinese history may be entirely mythical, meaning you may not even exist. Well that would certainly explain the laser eyes. Chinese civilization began around the year 2000 BC when the possibly mythical Shad Dynasty was formed. Throughout China's history, dynasties would usually rise up with a powerful leader who worked for the good of the people. But over time, the leaders would become more corrupt and self-serving. Someone would inevitably build a lake of alcohol, and the angry populace would overthrow them, giving way for a new dynasty to rise. Following this pattern, the Shad Dynasty was replaced by the Shang, who liked bronze and writing, but then the leaders got corrupt, and were replaced by the Zhou, who liked iron and philosophy. But that one sort of just fell apart and was replaced by the Qin, who liked building walls and people made out of rock. But they were pretty tyrannical from the start, and were quickly replaced by the Han, who liked creating new trade routes and getting in touch with their emotions. In line with this pattern, the Han Dynasty came about under the strong and popular leadership of Emperor Gao Zhu. The dynasty remained firmly in place for over four centuries, and was considered a golden age in Chinese history, developing new forms of art, political thinking, technology, oh, looks like all the leaders got corrupt. See, probably the biggest problem in ancient China's political system that allowed so much corruption to come about all the time was a little something called court culture. Let me explain. Imagine for me, if you will, that you are the son of the Chinese Emperor. Hooray! Now apart from how weird it is that you have a ton of stepmoms, and many of them would like to kill you, and also all of your friends are middle aged dudes with no dogs, life's pretty alright. One day, your father says, son, I know our relationship hasn't been the best, and I've never said this before, but I just want to let you know that. I love you. Oh no, I'm having a heart attack! Look at you. Now you're the Emperor. I'm so proud of you. But wait, you are about a child and have no idea how to rule over a massive empire. Freight not, because just about everyone in your court wants to help you out with that. Hey man, remember me? I'm your mom's bro. Anyway, I heard you needed someone to rule over China for you. I mean, to help you rule China. So hey, here's a popsicle. I hope we can get along. No way man, we've been your friends and your personal caretakers your whole life, and even though we may have no dogs, I think you should give us all the power to rule China. I mean, help you rule China. So who will you be influenced by? You're scheming uncle or you're loyal unix, and towards the end of the hand dynasty, a string of child emperors allowed more and more power to fall into the hands of the unix. Oh no, now they're scheming too. They began handing out government jobs for bribes, heavily taxing the poor for their own wealth, and while you're sitting there eating your popsicle, everyone in your court is literally murdering each other. Trying to consolidate more power and riches for themselves, while all the peasants are outside like, hey, did you guys know there's been a drought out here for two years? Guys? Obviously the people weren't too happy that while they were struggling to survive, they were also being heavily taxed so that the Unicfection could all have rock and mansions, complete with swimming pools and elixes. So finally, when a self-proclaimed, doused wizard came along, and was like, you know who's fault it is that we're all out here starving? It's the Emperor and his Posse. They've lost their mandate from heaven, and the Imperial family must be destroyed with an unrelenting, furious wrath. We'll see, check this out. Huh? Can you tell what it is yet? Ta-da! It's a little kitty cat. Look at her little ears. The people loved his political philosophy. He promised them land reforms, and his followers grew a number. They began arming themselves and wearing yellow turvans, and they also developed a really catchy slogan. In the year 184, the yellow turban rebellion broke out across China, with millions rising up against a hand dynasty, and the Imperial government in the capital city freaked out. With all their internal bickering, they were completely unprepared and unable to deal with such a huge rebellion, so they were forced to call on independent warlords from across the empire to help them deal with this situation. Some big names took part in the fighting. I'm talking the likes of the great South-South, the tyrannical Dongzhou, Liu Bei, Sun Jian, and many many other Chinese names I'm definitely not pronouncing correctly. These warlords crushed the rebellion in their own respective regions, and with casualties in the millions, the hand dynasty breathed a huge sigh of relief. But what they didn't realize is that by relying on all the warlords and their armies, they had essentially diminished their own central control over the empire. And many of the warlords now held the power to act almost completely independently, and rule over their own local regions themselves. Back in the capital, the Emperor and his son were having a little chat. Listen, I know we've had our ups and downs, and I spend all of my time with your many, many, smoking hot stepmoms instead of you. But what say you and I finally go on a little fishing trip together this weekend? Oh no, I'm having a stroke! And yet another child emperor was on the throne. This time, however, instead of the Unic faction getting even more power, this child emperor's uncle became his regent, who also just so happened to be the head of the Imperial army, Hu Jin. Man, I hate those sneaky, lying, cheating Unics. Hey, Warlord, you and Chou, what should we do? Kill them all. Right on. You can't kill the Unics? They're a vital part of this empire's governance, and also they paid me a lot of money to say that about them. Ah, come on! No! So Hu Jin and you and Chou decided the Empress may need more, convincing. And so they called in an infamous, feared, tyrannical, overweight Warlord from the Northwest to help convince her. That man was Dongzhou. And he set out for the capital city with his army. Hey guys, I heard a rumor that Hu Jin was planning on killing us. Then why don't we kill him first? And so it was. They lured him to the palace with a forge letter from his sister, and when he got there, they lobbed off his head. Kill them all. Imperial forces stormed the palace, and the Unics were all massacred. The peasants, who were still suffering from drought and starvation, saw what was going on, and began to riot. The Emperor and his brother were forced to flee the city, which was now in flames. And the feared, nasty, tyrannical, bloated Dongzhou had just arrived. He found the Emperor and his brother wandering the hills outside of the city, and was understandably confused. So he scooped up the Emperor, went to the capital and was like, hey guys, what's up? I see the capital is on fire. Also I'm here with my army, and I have the Emperor with me. Wait a minute, the capital is on fire, I'm here with my army, and I have the Emperor. Screw you guys, I'm in charge. So now Dongzhou ruled over the hand dynasty as the Emperor's region. His first act was to say to the Emperor, hey man, no hard feelings, but I like your little brother better, so I'm actually making him emperor instead of you, so you're free to go do whatever you want. Actually. Yeah, that feels better. Dongzhou ruled with an iron fist, and he did whatever the flip he wanted. He made absolute decisions himself, showing no regard for the monarchy. He had his opponents or those who disagreed with him killed. He broke protocol, doing things like keeping his sword when approaching the Emperor, wearing shoes in the court, sleeping in the Emperor's bed, and worst of all, he would walk in the presence of the Emperor, you were meant to trot. The other warlords around the Empire hated him, and so they said, something needs to be done about this guy. What say we form a coalition and asked him? And it was agreed. Warlords from across China, their armies amounting to 100,000 men, allied together against the tyranny of Dongzhou. Yuan Shao's coalition consisted of some of the nation's most capable leaders, including his half-brother Yuan Shu, the great Satsang and Sun Jian. But Dongzhou had an ace up his sleeve, his protege, and adopted son, one of the most skilled and feared warriors in all of China. It's Liu Bu. This guy was a beast of a man. He never lost a Jew, and no other warlord dared challenge him to want. He was also famous for betraying just about every warlord he ever fought for, something that Dongzhou didn't seem to concern about. The coalition attacked Dongzhou in Luoyang, and in particular, Sun Jian's forces inflicted a heavy defeat against him, and he was forced to flee to the city of Chang'an. After this initial success, however, the war entered into a stalemate. The warlords in the coalition realized it was going nowhere, and also they all secretly hated each other. So they all went home. Dongzhou was safe, until. Legend has it that a government official in Chang'an had a daughter who was hot, super hot. He invited Liu Bu to his home, and promised Liu Bu that someday he could marry his daughter. Then, he invited Dongzhou to his house, and did the exact same thing. Dongzhou was so smitten that he insisted on taking her as his concubine immediately, and when Liu Bu heard the news, he was pretty unhappy. Hey, man, aren't you worried that you stole Liu Bu's girl, and betrayal is like, his personal hobby? Liu Bu? Betray me? No way, man. Never gonna happen. Oh crap. Liu Bu, along with other government officials, assassinated the tyrannical Dongzhou. Then they left his body burning in the streets. Some sources say he was so fat and oily, he kept on burning for days. So with Dongzhou dead, and the power of the hand government essentially decimated, China was left with a huge power gap, and a ton of warlords who all slept soundly at night dreaming of being the one to fill it. Here we enter into a crazy and chaotic period of civil war all across China, with so many people, so much betrayal, so much intricacies, and makes Game of Thrones look like a doctor's suce publication. But just to give you an idea of how crazy and chaotic it was, see if you're able to keep up with this. Are you ready? Here we go. Here's a rough map of the warlords throughout the Han Dynasty at the time. Half brothers Yuan Shao and Yuan Shu were both in a power struggle for who would become the figurehead of their family. Yuan Shu made alliances with warlords in the north, along with Sun Jian, the guy who defeated Dongzhou. Yuan Shao also made alliances with Liu Bi Hao in the south, and Cao Cao, who was an amazing strategist and general. All of these warlords began fighting each other. Cao Cao began building his own strength by subjugating nearby remnants of the yellow turban rebellion into his own forces. Down south, things weren't going so well for Sun Jian, as he was killed in an ambush. So Sun Sun, Sun Shao took over. Then Yuan Shu got pushed back to the river Huai, so he ordered Sun Shao to take the territory of Warlord Liu Kang. Then Sun Shao went off to capture territories in the east for himself. Cao Cao's family lived in this province over here. One day, they were murdered. Oh no, Cao Cao held the province's governor responsible, and so he launched a cruel invasion in which he pillaged cities and murdered over 100,000 civilians. The governor sent out a call for help, and a very popular, likable warlord by the name of Liu Bi came to his aid. However, while Cao Cao was away fighting, a rebellion was staged against him in his home province. By none other than, it's Liu Bi. Cao Cao rushed home and defeated Liu Bi, who fled to the east, which by now had been inherited by Liu Bi. Then Liu Bi, surprised, surprised, launched a rebellion against Liu Bi, who fled to Cao Cao. Together, Cao Cao and Liu Bi would go on to invade and defeat Liu Bi. Liu Bi offered to join Cao Cao, and Cao Cao considered the offer. But his advises were like, no way man, this guy's betrayed literally everyone he ever worked for. And so Buhu, Liu Bu, was executed. Next, Cao Cao convinced the emperor to move in with him. Now he's in control of the hand government, something that made his allies very jealous. Yuan Shu, out of nowhere, decides to declare himself emperor of the new Zhong Dynasty. Nobody liked that. His allies cut ties with him. The imperial government ordered everyone to kill him. He tried to flee to his brother Yuan Shao, but died of illness on the way. Soon Cao took over his territory and then got assassinated. So his brother, Sun Chen, took over. Liu Bi turned on Cao Cao, but got obliterated and was forced to flee south. Yuan Shao finally defeated the warlord to his north, and could now focus south. He declared war on his allies Cao Cao, but was defeated at the battle of Guangdu. Cao Cao has now united the north, and he turned his attention to the south. In particular, Liu Bi's province was becoming a powerful threat. So Cao Cao attacked him. Liu Bi was now fighting for Liu Bi, and he held Cao Cao off for a while. But then Liu Bi outdied and his son took over, and immediately surrendered to Cao Cao. Liu Bi was horrified, and he fled southward to try and maintain control of the province. Cao Cao was on an absolute roll, and it looked like he would be the one to take control of China. He began making plans to attack both Liu Bi and Sun Chen, and the two of them, seeing where things were headed, met up and decided to form an alliance. Now I know that was a lot to take in, but all you really need to know at this point is that this guy is on his way to taking over everything, and he's about to throw his full weight at the southern warlords. These two have one chance, one battle, to prevent him from invading the south, and that battle was the famous battle of red cliffs. To take the south, Cao Cao would need to control and cross the mighty Yangtze River. He had over 200,000 men to face against Liu Bi and Sun Chen's combined force of 50,000. How would they stand a chance when they were so outnumbered? Legend says most of Sun Chen's advisors pleaded with him to surrender, but then he smashed up a table, and they all backed down. Luckily, Cao Cao's forces were ravaged by disease and exhaustion, and his northern soldiers weren't too comfortable in ships. So when Cao Cao sailed down the river, and the two sides met for an initial skirmish at Wu Lin, Cao Cao was unable to inflict a defeat against the allies. Then, one of Sun Chen's men came up with a very sneaky plan. He sent Cao Cao a letter, pretending that he and others wanted to defect to his side, and offered to bring him some of Liu Bi and Sun Chen's finest ships. Little did Cao Cao know, however, that those ships were full of flammable reads. As they approached his fleet, they were set a light, and destroyed his ships and camp. Seeing the situation is hopeless, Cao Cao ordered a difficult retreat through the rain and marshlands, during which more of his men felt an illness and disease. The underdogs had won, and Cao Cao would never again have another chance to take the south. Following that, the three-warlords took some time to finish off some smaller competitors in their own regions, and by the year 214, Cao Cao looked a little bit like this. Cao Cao continued to try to penetrate the southern regions, but had no success, and even lost the Han-jian region to Liu Bi in 2017. The former allies eventually fell out over who should own this territory here, with Sun Chen coming out on top. In 220, Cao Cao died of a head disease, and was replaced by his son, Cao Pi. Cao Pi convinced the Emperor of Han to abdicate, and then proclaimed himself the Emperor of the new state of Wei. Liu Bi followed Su, declaring himself the true Emperor of Xu Han, and a few years later, Sun Chen joined in the fun, and declared himself Emperor of Wu. And so now you have a number of kingdoms in China. How many? Count them. One, two, three. Three kingdoms. Except actually, they weren't kingdoms, they were dynasties, and when the three kingdoms finally formed, not a whole lot happened. For the next three decades, they continued to engage in combat, but it almost always ended in stalemate, and nobody really got anywhere. So how did it all end? Did Cao Cao's descendants eventually realize his dream of unifying China? Not quite. Instead, the three kingdoms became victims of the usual problems that plagued Chinese dynasties. In Wu, Sun Chen's descendant became a tyrant, who is more interested in spending time with his concubines than governing. In Xu Han, a powerful, corrupt, unicfaction rose up, and by now we all know how that ends. And in Wei, a string of young Emperor's gave way for a powerful family, the Sima clan, to take control of the dynasties government. This Sima clan recognized the weak state Xu and Wu had been reduced to, and so they began making plans. I've just received this letter that says Wei is planning to attack us. Should we make preparations for war? Nah. It's probably nothing to worry about. Let's do absolutely nothing. Sounds good to me. Wei launched a full-scale invasion into Xu, which fell within a year. Then Simaian forced the Wei Emperor to abdicate, and proclaimed himself Emperor of the new Jin dynasty. In the year 279, Jin launched an invasion of Wu, and finally unified China in the year 288, the pattern of rising and falling dynasties, division and reunification would continue in China for centuries to come. Right now you may be asking yourself, but wait a minute. What would have happened if Tatsuo had his way in unified China? Or what if Lu Bu never assassinated Dongzhou, and he continued to rule over the hand dynasty? What about if one of these smaller warlords had risen to the top? Dang it, what if I want to be a warlord during the downfall of the hand dynasty? Whoa partner, calm down. Because now you can. This video was brought to you by Total War 3 Kingdoms, a brand new strategy game that combines a gripping turn-based campaign of empire building, state craft and conquest with stunning real-time battles, choose from a cast of legendary warlords and conquer the realm, unite China under your rule, forge the next great dynasty and build a legacy that will last through the ages, recruit heroic characters to aid your cause and dominate your enemies on military, technological, political and economic fronts. Will you build powerful friendships, form brotherly alliances and earn the respect of your many foes? Or would you rather commit acts of treachery, inflict heart-wrenching betrayals and become a master of grand political intrigue? I bet you would. Your legend is yet to be written, but one thing is certain, glorious conquest awaits. By the game on Steam, using my link in the description down below, it would also support my channel and my work massively. So thank you.