This video was made possible by NordVPN. Click the link below and get an exclusive deal with four extra months. Also, check out the merch store for some new character pins, the last remaining bucket plushies, and even a calendar. And I'm not done yet. We've partnered with YouTools to bring you an exclusive over-simplified Roman console figure. Get it while you can at oversimplified.YouTools.com, but it's limited edition. So once it's gone, it's gone. So go and buy it now. Hey, what are you still doing here? I said go and buy it now! Alright, our beloved mercenaries. Let's hear it. Okay, thank you one and all for your hard work fighting in the first Punic War. Would have been nice if you'd want. Maybe try it a little harder, but this isn't the finger pointing convention. I know you all have one thing on your mind. Hey, when are we all getting paid? Oh, that's so annoying. Remember you lost your... Okay. Jim, why don't you tell them? I'm not telling them you tell them. Ugh, look, you're not getting paid. What? We lost the first Punic War, and Otherroman's a ton of reparations. Of course we can't pay you in full. Let's burn this place to the ground! Yeah! Hey, hey! Don't burn this place to the ground! Come on, fellas. Will killing us really make you feel better about your money? Yes! Way to go, sir. Shut up, Jim! You're fired. I guess that makes two of us, huh? In the aftermath of the first Punic War, Carthage's disgruntled mercenaries left on paid for all their hard work, revolted, and Carthage found itself caught up in an extremely destructive mercenary war. The panicked Carthage Indians hired more mercenaries to fight the mercenaries they couldn't afford to pay, and Carthage came dangerously close to collapse. All the while, across the water, there was Rome. Ha! Look at those morons. We just kicked the ass in the first Punic War. And now their own mercenaries are revolting. Ha! Yeah. Wait, first Punic War, you mean there's going to be a second one? Well, we're definitely taking advantage of this situation. So almost certainly yes. The Romans did in fact take advantage of this situation. Amongst the chaos, Rebels on the Carthaginian island of Sardinia sent out a cry for help to Rome. Hot diggeri dogs said the Romans. That's free real estate. And so in, they went. Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! That's our island. Get the hell off. Hey, they requested our help. We're simply helping. Oh, no, you don't. Look, we're sending our own army to deal with the Rebels, okay? But, just to be clear, we're not trying to start a fight with you. So, you know, don't declare war or not certainy thing. More. Aha! We surrender. Great. And as part of the peace treaty, we get to keep these islands. N någon! The Carthage Indians were hopping mad. As if their humiliating loss in the first Punic War wasn't bad enough, the Romans now took advantage of their mercenary problem and stole their islands. This shocking land grab was pretty hard to justify, even by Roman standards. Additionally, the Romans now demanded Carthage pay them even more money on top of what was already owed. If Rome was trying to make Carthage as mad as possible, they were doing. Fantastic job! The seeds of a second Punic War were being sown and they were being watered with Carthageinian tears. Resentment in Carthage only continued to grow. Eventually, Carthage sold their mercenary problem thanks to Carthageini and military genius and hero of the first Punic War, Hamilkar, Barkha. He sorted those naughty mercenaries out with some good old fashioned atrocities and the destructive mercenary war was over. Still, all was not well. In Carthage, mere decades ago, they were the top dogs in the Western Mediterranean. Now, after the crushing defeat in the first Punic War and a huge bill to pay the Romans, Carthage was well and truly under Rome's thumb. What on earth were they supposed to do? If they wanted any chance at regaining their former strength, there was one thing they needed now, more than anything. Money. But as long as they owed Rome a bazillion dollars, there was nothing they could do. Fortunately for them, amongst their ranks, there was one big hunk of a man with one big clump of a brain. Me! Hamilkar Barkha! Yes! Wait, why do you all have the exact same voice? Ah! I have it too! That's right, Hero of the First Punic War, greatest general of life, and the poster above my bed, Hamilkar Barkha had an idea. All right, we need money? Well, I've got one word for you. Spain. An area filled with lucrative silver mines, from which the silver would flow like a river, and our pockets would be stuffed, like Tony's mother at a buffet. Hey! So here's my proposal. You send me with an army to Spain. I'll expand our territory, get those silver mines up and running, and we'll be able to pay the Romans back in no time. Okay. But just to check, you're not secretly raising the money to go in a bloodthirsty revenge spree against Rome, are you? Because we can't afford that. Hano, my dear. I'm simply going to pay them back. Well, I wasn't reassuring. Few in Carthage were as bitter about their loss in the First Punic War, as Hamilkar Barkha. 98% of his brain matter had been reallocated to thoughts of revenge. He was also fed up with the Carthagenian politicians, for what he deemed a cowardly betrayal, when they surrendered at the end of the last war. And so for Hamilkar, going to Spain meant being able to act independently from the weak Carthagenian government, building his own strength, and then perhaps somewhere down the line, revenge. However, he wasn't going to Spain by himself. Hannibal, yes, father? Would you like to come with me to build an empire in Spain? Oh boy, would I? Barbara, mind if I take our nine-year-old son with me? I want to implant an intense heatred of Roman and prepare him for a glorious campaign of vengeance. Just try not to traumatize him, dear. No promises. The young boy Hannibal would accompany his father, watching, learning. Boy, you see that city over there. Yes, father? That is Rome. Do you know what we do to Romans? No father. We hate them Hannibal. We hate them with every fiber of our being. But why father? Can't I just play with my Digimon? No son! They took everything from us. Our land, our wealth, our pride. Those animals. I'll tear them limb from limb. I'll burn their pathetic city to the ground. Dad? I'm sorry, son. I've just never been so proud. Keep going. I'll slaughter their people. I'll cut off their faces and wear them as masks. But I love you son! After taking Hannibal to the Temple of Ball and having him swear an oath never to be a friend of Rome, off Dad and son went for their lovely beach holiday in Spain. But Spain was already inhabited by many tribes people. And when Hamilkar suddenly showed up in their territory, they were like, Hey, who the hell are you? What are you doing here? I'm teaching my son how to become a warrior like me. Uh-huh. Well, that's sweet. Well then, little guy, let's see what you got. Good boy. As Hamilkar got to work fighting the tribes of Iberia and expanding Carthaginian influence, Hannibal became a child of war, even earning battle scars from a young age. And he grew to become a great military leader himself, making his father very proud. I love you so much son. Dad, not in front of the enemy. You killed that guy so well, son. The bark is successfully consolidated Carthaginian power. Got those silver mines up and running, and we're sending buckets of cash back to a money starved Carthage. And symbolizing Carthage's regrowing strength, a beautiful new city would eventually be founded in Spain. New Carthage, with a magnificent palace at its center. Carthage is back, baby. What in the name of Apollo is going on here? Romans flowing silver mines, dancing elephants, what are you up to, Hamilkar? I'm simply gathering the money to pay you back. Oh, okay then. Or are you rebuilding strength to go in a bloodthirsty revenge spree? Like I said, Claudius, I'm simply trying to pay you. Back. Aw. You guys are hugging. But, no we're not. I was. I was hugging. Hamilkar had practically carved out a kingdom for himself in Spain. Free from the meddling Carthage and Poleticians. His power was becoming immense. But dad, yes my son, I'm confused. Are we really simply paying the Romans back? We're not going to go on a bloodthirsty revenge spree? Of course we are. I'm just saying that to get the Romans off our backs. Listen, here's the most important life lesson I have for you. Vengeance is everything. An old encompassing thirst for vengeance is great for your mental health. Are you still confused? No, no, I get it now. But what if the Romans find out what we're up to? They won't find out. Why? Well Hannibal? Because I use Nord VPN. I'm confused again. Do you like your computer being hacked? All your passwords been stolen and used to create a fake virtual you who drains your mom's bank account? Me neither. And that's why I use Nord VPN. These days hackers are only getting smarter. While you're only getting dumber, whether it's convincing fishing attacks, fake Wi-Fi networks, or clicking your aunt's Facebook post that opens the door to a hacker party on your device, you need to protect yourself from online threats with Nord VPN. Nord VPN allows you to connect to secure servers that encrypt your data and keeps you safe by blocking malicious websites with their threat protection feature. With Nord VPN, you can also connect to other territories and take advantage of better deals or content not available in your country. And if you don't like it, it comes with a 30-day money back guarantee. So go to nordvpn.com slash oversimplified to get an exclusive deal with a huge discount and four extra months. That's nordvpn.com slash oversimplified. And as always, you'll be supporting my channel. So thank you. Now where were we? Oh yeah. Carthaginian Tears, a child of war, and the Carthaginian conquest of Spain. The Carthaginian recovery had been staggeringly quick and room was seriously alarmed, but they were also preoccupied with ongoing wars elsewhere, including an expansionist war to the north where they were enslaving thousands of northern Celts. So for now, to keep Carthagin Czech, the Romans insisted on a new treaty. See this river. The two sides agreed that everything above it was in room-sphereed influence, while beneath it was Carthage. Under no circumstances were the Carthaginians to expand north of that river. But for now, Hamilkar and Sun were living it. Well, Sun, here's to many more years of successful campaigning in Spain. Now if you'll excuse me, I just have to go fight those guys. See you later, Sun. I love you. What the? Oh crap. I drowned? Oh well. Always remember, Sun. You are vengeance. Also delete my browsing history. Hamilkar Barka was tragically ambushed at a river and drowned. His son-in-law, and possibly also his lover, no further questions, took charge for one. But he too was later assassinated, leaving finally at 26-year-old Hannibal in charge of the Carthaginian armies in Spain. Sources say the men readily accepted him as their leader. He chose to suffer the same hardships as his men. He lived in the same conditions, was often the first into battle, and the last one out, and it also helped that he looked a lot like his dad. He had the total respect of his men. If he said jump, they said how high. If he said tuck me in, they said how tight. If he said talk to a girl without peeing your pants, they said that's impossible. Nobody can do that. An army that would follow him anywhere would be crucial for exacting his vengeance against Rome. Hannibal's army had become a strong and loyal fighting force, and that was making a certain nation very uncomfortable. Seeing Carthage restring them so quickly was not something Rome had expected, yet here they were, paying off their debts and expanding their territory. It didn't feel very much like Carthage was under Rome's thumb at all, and Rome wanted to put an end to it. Tensions were strung tighter than your liars G-Strip, and all it would take was one incident to trigger all out war. And in 219 BC, a city in Spain would find itself at the very center of that fateful incident, Segundum. Remember that treaty declaring everything south of this river to be Carthage's sphere of influence? Well, Segundum should therefore obviously be Carthageanian, right? Segundum had actually scored itself an informal alliance with Rome. After Rome had helped it with an internal dispute. With Carthageanian encroachment, Segundum began to fear for its independence, and Rome declared itself Segundum's protector. But this clearly went against the Ebro River treaty, so what on earth was Rome doing? Were the Sookin teens in the Romans truly just BFFs? It's possible, or was Rome deliberately trying to interfere with Hannibal's Spanish expansion, and maintain a staging post for a future war with Carthage? More likely, and Hannibal certainly viewed this Rome-Segundum alliance as an outrage, yet another example of Roman arrogance. At first, he left Segundum alone, but having learnt from his father to hate all things Roman and having inherited his father's dream of bringing Rome to its needs more and more, Hannibal may have begun to see Segundum as an opportunity. Could this controversial alliance be just what devilish little Hannibal needed to kickstart a second war with Rome and restore Carthageanian dominance? It's even possible that Rome were also using Segundum to go Hannibal into a fight, so they could go and kick him out of Spain, and as the two giants began gearing up for round two, the poor people of Segundum had no idea that they were about to be crushed in the collision. Hey, your alliance with Segundum is an insult, and we won't stand for it. There are friends Hannibal, and if you lay a finger on them, it'll be an act of war. Yeah, Hannibal, back the hell off. War, hey? Now I was thinking I might just be siege their city and massacre their people. I hope you do, Hannibal. Find out what happens. Yeah, we hope you do, Hannibal- Wait, what? Maybe I will. Go ahead, kill them all. Uh, okay then. Fine, fine. Okay, guess I'll do just that. Consul, we look forward to it. Consul, you're going to protect us, though. Right, Consul? Consul! Down, no! To top it all off, when the Segundtine people made the genius decision of raiding into Carthaginian territory enough, was enough in an action that was guaranteed to provoke the Romans into war. Hannibal besieged the city. The siege of Segundum lasted eight cruel months before Hannibal broke through the city defenses and turned Segundum into a killing field. It was a massacre. What the hell? Tell me I didn't just catch you massacring our friends, the Sugandtis. Well, Consul, if you like the Sugandtis so much, perhaps you should suck on these nuts. Hearing word of the attack on Segundum, Rome was understandably in an uproar, and all eyes were now fixated on what would happen next as Rome sent a delegation to Carthage, led by one of the most highly esteemed Roman senators, Fabius, Maximus. He demanded an answer for Hannibal's sins. All right, listen up, scum. You've got a rogue general in Spain attacking a Roman ally. What are we supposed to do about it? Well, there shouldn't have even been a Roman ally in Spain. You're the aggressor here. Hannibal over to us is a criminal, so we can punish him severely. No, yes, no, no, look, I hold in the folds of my toga both peace and war. Which one should I let drop? Whichever one you want, then I choose. The Second Punic War had begun. Pack it up, boys. We've got him. We already destroyed these clowns once, and we were the underdogs. Now we're the overdogs? Hot dogs. Exactly. This is going to be E-Z. Here's the plan. Consul Longus, you take your army and sail straight for Carthage. Burn that city to the ground, and Consul Skipia. You just head on over to Iberian. Make sure this Hannibal guide doesn't do anything crazy. I mean, what's he going to do? Cross the Alps? We're going to what? Cross the Alps. We're going to what? I just told you, Hannibal, we'll freeze to death. Trust me, Jerome. The Romans are expecting us to fight the same way we did last time. Passively, taking no initiative. They think it's going to be E-Z. So this time, we have to be aggressive. We have to go on the attack. It seconds me to say this, but this time, we have to be a little more Roman. You mean we're going to take poops and bass together? But I'm insecure about my hairy legs. No, I'm saying this time we're going to take the fight to them. Think about it. Rome thinks they're simply going to invade us and win the war. So when they suddenly find themselves being invaded from the north, they'll freak out like Tony's mother when the buffet runs out of shrimp. Hey, I got to admit, it's actually kind of genius. And my hairy legs will insulate me from the cold. That's the spirit, Hannibal. You have my sword and my spear and my legs. Hannibal's plan, a daring Alpine trek to surprise the Romans, was a bold but risky strategy. If it paid off, he could catch the Romans with their panstand, but he could also end up losing a ton of men and supplies in the hostile mountain conditions. Nevertheless, in 218 BC, with a fire in his eyes and some vengeance in his belly, Hannibal brought his force of almost a hundred thousand men across the Ebro River. They spent months on the road trekking through the cold hostile mountain conditions. And when they finally reached the other side, they said, hooray, we did it. We crossed the Alps. Now, those were the Pyrenees. Those are the Alps. After crossing the Pyrenees, the army then had to pass through southern Gaul, a vast territory filled with tribespeople, many of whom were hostile to Hannibal's presence. His journey to the Alps was an ordeal in itself, as he was forced to fight his way through and incurred pretty hefty losses before even reaching the mountains. His plan was almost stopped in its tracks entirely, as the Roman consul's skipier, on his way to Iberia, discovered Hannibal, was right on his doorstep. Suddenly, Hannibal's journey became a race, as he rushed to get his massive army across the vast Roman river before the Romans could intercept him. The crossing was chaotic with the panicking elephants, causing several men to drown, and the first combat of the war occurred when small scouting parties from each side encountered one another. When Scipio finally caught up to Hannibal's position, what he found was an empty Carthaginian camp. Hannibal had slipped through his fingers. The Roman consul's skipio felt the weight of the situation. Quite unbelievably, Hannibal was going to cross the Alps into Italy, and the Romans had no idea where he would emerge. For the first time, a Carthaginian force had the Roman homeland under threat. Scipio sent his men onto Iberia's plan, but he himself rushed home to raise a new army, so that if Hannibal survived the crossing, Scipio would be there. Waiting. Would you look at that, boys? We're here. The Alps. Although it is a little later than I expected. Yeah, it's kind of chilly. We'll set up camp here and wait for spring, right? It's way too cold, right? Hannibal? Hannibal's famous crossing of the Alps was brutal. It was already autumn, and the men suffered terribly. It was cold. Men would fall off the sides of icy cliffs. They starved, they fell off the sides of icy cliffs. Some sources say they had to eat their pack animals, and would finish off dying comrades in order to take their clothes for extra warmth. And then, they would fall off the sides of icy cliffs, imagine an army of 50,000 men, with all of their horses, supplies, and 37 elephants trying to navigate the most hostile mountain range in Europe. And it wasn't just nature that they were up against. Tribes people lived in the mountains, and they couldn't believe what they were seeing. A tribe approached Hannibal and said, hey man, geez, that's some nice armor. What is that? Gold? Man, I'd really like that armor. Hey boss, they've got food as well. Shut up, be cool. Hey, why don't you let us guide you through this narrow gorge? We're not going to kill you or nothing. Just walk right on through there. We're not going to kill you. It's just right this way. We're not going to kill you. Hannibal's army were forced to fight their way through the gorge, as massive boulders rained down on them from above. Some clever reorganization of his line helped them survive, and they were able to fend off the opportunistic tribes. But losses from the constant attacks were heavy. As the journey continued, men who went over the sides would get stuck on the ice sheets below and had to make a grisly choice between starving to death or just getting it over with. When the deeply demoralized army reached the summit and rested for a couple days, Hannibal tried to lift their spirits with a rousing speech. Look, men, down there, it's Rome. These planes stretching out in front of you are bountiful with food to eat and Romans to kill. Move, Bessie. Look, you have just climbed the walls of Rome. The hard part is over. From here and out, it's all downhill, and nobody else will die. Except for them, the rest of us here? No one dies. Starting now. Okay, let's go. Oh, for goodness sake. As it turned out, the descent was as deadly as the way up, with the cold really starting to set in. The path became even more narrow. And at one point, the men spent three days in the freezing cold, repairing a collapsed road. When they finally reached the bottom, Hannibal said, look, guys, we did it. Well, I thought it went really well. When Hannibal left Spain, he had about 100,000 men. By the time he reached the Italian planes, his numbers had dwindled to about 26,000. He was now caught in enemy territory without a supply line or source of reinforcements. And any elephants who had survived to this point were almost certainly traumatized. So what on earth was Hannibal up to? This supposed military genius had just led a starving and weakened army right into enemy territory. Any modern general who lost half their men to mountains would be immediately fired and possibly even depend on live TV. Here's the thing, while Hannibal may not have planned on losing quite so many men, he had almost certainly expected considerable losses and he always had a plan for how to replace them. Need men? Northern Italy was full of men. Big, burly, Celtic men. All the men Hannibal would ever need to beat off Rome. These Celts were filled with resentment having only recently been conquered by Rome. Hannibal hoped to be seen as a liberator, convinced the Celts to cut ties with Rome and instead join him in crushing Rome. That way, he could gain a source of reinforcements and supplies, right in Rome's backyard. But sir, in order to win the loyalty of the Celts, we would need to make a seriously favorable impression on them. How do we get him to like us? One of Hannibal's first actions in Italy was to obliterate a nearby tribe who wouldn't join him. This sent a clear message to all the other tribes. It was his wrath they should fear, not Rome's. The realization that a Carthagean army had just invaded them must have been shocking for the Romans. But when they looked at this Ragtag group broken by the Alps, they couldn't have felt very intimidated. However, Hannibal was now in Italy and he was about to embark on one of the most astonishing military campaigns in all of human history. The Romans may not have known it yet, but there was now a monster loose in their territory and he was vying for Roman blood.