Okay, let's get started. I really need a man. I need a man. Help! I'm going to get pliers. The lesbian solution. Oh, okay. Let's get started. I love my king. This is not really the most feminine moment for me. Not really my 2020 vibe, but it does proportionate my giant man hands. Alright, no one thinks I'm cute. Let's get started. This video is about cancelling, also known as cancel culture, formerly known as call-out culture. And I know you kids know all about this, but before we dive in, I have to explain the basics to my fellow boomers. So listen up, oldies. In the lingo of these young avocado guzzling, smart phone addicts who killed Applebee's cancelling is online shaming, vilifying, and ostracizing of prominent members of a community by other members of that community. Like so much internet slang, this use of the word cancelling started out on black Twitter, where a few years ago, people, well mostly women, would tweet cancel or kelly and things like that. You know, it started out as this vigilante strategy for bringing justice and accountability to powerful people who previously had been immune to any consequences for their actions. For example, the me too movement promised to use social media shaming to topple sexually abusive men in power who couldn't be held accountable. The promise of cancelling was that it was going to give power back to people who had none and bring justice to prominent abusers. It's in a way the 21st century version of the guillotine, the bringer of justice, the people's avenger, but also like the guillotine, it can become a sadistic and attainment spectacle. And I want to make the case that we do have, well, a teensy bit of a reign of terror situation on our hands, gorge. Now there's a version of this conversation that's already been had to death and it goes like this. On the one side are a bunch of male comedians who constantly bitch about how cancel culture is out of control. You can't joke about anything anymore without these millennial jocles trying to get you in trouble. And the other side is mostly progressive think piece authors who argue that there's no such thing as cancel culture. It's just that powerful people are finally being held accountable for their actions and they can't fucking handle it so they go around bitching about cancel culture. Now unfortunately neither of those viewpoints is quite as correct as some people might hope. So it's a good thing I'm here to deliver the truth. He didn't know I was transgender. Story time, emotional, not clickbait. Let's start with an example. The most high profile YouTube canceling of 2019 was the canceling of James Charles. And again, I know you kids remember this, but I have to re-heat ancient YouTube tea for the elders. But the kettle on Karen, so James Charles is a 20 year old beauty guru which means some boomers. Look, there's these people who make YouTube videos teaching you how to do makeup. It's worth checking out if you can figure out how to start up internet explorer. I certainly can't. It's pretty bomb. It's lit. It's groovy. It's fab. It's far out. It's a gas I fully dig it. Free love. Give peace of chance. Nixon's a fascist. So back in May of this year, James' colleague and mother figure, fellow YouTube beauty guru Tati Westbrook uploaded a 40 minute video accusing James of endorsing a different brand of hair vitamins than the brand that she... Wait, that was a competitor of her brand of hair vitamins. And an enthralling plotline I know. And this was huge. This was covered in the New York Times. And while Tati was added, oh, it doesn't after thought to the hair vitamin dispute, she also accused James of being a sexual predator. Now, I actually went back and checked Tati's original deleted video. And she actually never uses the phrase sexual predator. It's funny. I remember her calling him that because that became the story on Twitter. But what she actually said was James had tried to trick straight men into thinking their gay. Oh my god, you tried to trick a straight man into thinking he's gay yet again. Which is pretty different from calling him a sexual predator. But see, this is what cancel culture does. It takes one story and transforms it into a significantly different story. You know, the headline I would write about the James and Tati story might read, Tati Westbrook accuses James Charles of trying to trick straight men into thinking their gay. But cancel culture transforms that story into the headline. James Charles is a sexual predator. Interesting. Now, I want to make it clear that my intention here is really not to defend James Charles. I'm not a James Charles stan. I'm a biological female in my 30s. Close to death, I know. Please leave a comment before I die. That said, I do think this statement James Charles as a sexual predator is a stretch to say the least. At least based on the information I have in December 2019. So let's analyze how this kind of truth stretching happens. cancel culture trope one. And you should be writing this down a class because this will be on the test. cancel culture trope one. presumption of guilt. There's a traditional understanding of justice. According to which before you condemn or punish a person, you hear the accusers side of the story. And the accused side of the story. You allow both sides to present evidence and only after everyone involved has had a chance to make their case. Do you pass sentence and punish the conflict? Oh, punish me king. Drinking this is punishment enough. Am I uncanceled yet? Please? Now in the United States of, we legally have the presumption of innocence. But canceling does not abide by the law. Cancelling is a form of vigilante mob justice. And a lot of times, an accusation is proof enough. Now that's basically the point of the progressive slogan, believe victims. It's a norm that was put into place in progressive spaces because out in the world at large, people generally don't believe victims. But I think it's pretty obvious how believe victims is a norm that's easy to abuse. Was Tati really James' victim? No. She's not some powerless woman abused by a prominent man in her industry. She's on top of the industry. And she wasn't victimized by James at all. I see this case more as she weaponized cancel culture against a business rival. Anyway, before James had even had a chance to respond to Tati's accusation, the story had already gone from Tati Westbrook accuses James Charles of trying to trick straight men to James Charles tried to trick straight men. And from there, it was generalized into James Charles is toxic and manipulative, which brings us to cancel culture trope too. Abstraction. Abstraction replaces the specific concrete details of a claim with a more generic statement. In the transition from Tati Westbrook accused James Charles of trying to trick straight men to James Charles is toxic and manipulative, we've lost not only the sense of this being an unverified accusation, but we've also lost all the specific details. James Charles is toxic and manipulative is an incredibly vague statement. It may as well be James Charles is bad. But even without the presumption of guilt, if someone tells me James Charles is accused of toxic and manipulative behavior, I'm going to think, oh, that sounds pretty bad. And I'm going to start speculating about the specifics and whatever my imagination comes up with is likely going to be worse than whatever he's actually accused of. Also, the specific accusation that he tried to trick straight men into thinking their gay is self-evidently kind of questionable. How do you trick straight men into thinking their gay if you find out? Let me know. It's bad. I'm bad. I'm super bad. This is not a problem that straight men usually seem to have. At the very least, it requires further explanation. It's the kind of story that sounds like it has more than one side. So I'm immediately going to feel a little bit skeptical of the accusation. And I'm also going to side-eye Tati Westbrook because this accusation is setting off my homophobia detection alarm. Leave the gays alone. But I'm not going to have an opportunity to pick up on the potential homophobia and be skeptical of it if all I've heard about this situation is James Charles's toxic and manipulative. And I also want to point out a linguistic shift that's happening here. When the claim is James Charles tried to trick straight men, the verbs in the sentence were try and trick. So what we're criticizing here is James's behavior. We're criticizing things he did allegedly trying to trick straight men. But once the claim morphs into James Charles is toxic and manipulative, the verb in the sentence is is to be. So these adjectives are characteristics of James. And it's now known as actions we're criticizing but his personality, his toxicity, his manipulativeness. This is what I'll call cancel culture trope three essentialism essential is when we go from criticizing a person's actions to criticizing the person themselves. We're not just saying they did bad things. We're saying they're a bad person. And that's what takes us from James Charles tried to trick straight men to James Charles is a sexual predator. So here we're targeting James himself, not just his actions, but the type of person he is. A sexual predator. And we've also really escalated the accusation because I don't know about you guys, but when I hear the phrase sexual predator, the image that comes to mind is a rapist or a child molester, maybe an abusive boss? Not a teenage swing hung up on wanting to date straight guys. I mean not that a person like that couldn't be a sexual predator, but I really don't think that he's a sexual predator is a fair summary of the accusation. So this seems to me like a pretty nasty and dishonest twisting of the story. And it happened instantaneously on Twitter. It totally dominated the conversation in a community of millions of people for weeks. In a few days, James had lost millions of subscribers and who knows what effect it had on his personal life. Not that anyone seems to care. In fact, most people seems to be enjoying his down the phone. He was a teenage millionaire, a young beautiful superstar, easy to envy, easy to resent, hard to relate to, hard to sympathize with. What was the point of canceling James Charles? Did we want to teach him a lesson? Did we want him to learn from his mistakes and grow as a person? Imagine actually wanting someone to learn. I can imagine actually caring. My hunch is that the average YouTube viewer was not sincerely outraged and hurt by their sincere belief that James Charles was a sexual predator. In other words, this was not a case of triggered SJWs. This was a controversy manufactured from the top by a handful of seemingly vindictive and envious people. I honestly think that most of the James Charles as a sexual predator crowd just wanted to bring him down a peg. Cancel culture trope for pseudo moralism or pseudo intellectualism. If you look at the world we live in, would you say that people are usually motivated by a sense of moral integrity and intellectual rigor? No. Maybe not. But let's be real America. We are a bunch of morally impotent meat bags constantly shitting ourselves out of fear and lust. For Tati, calling out James, this was really... it was about the hero vitamins. Right? I think this was super salty that this millionaire kid who she had supported and helped had betrayed her by endorsing a rival brand and accusing him of trying to trick straight men was just a twist of the ninth. But moralism or intellectualism provide a phony pretext for the callout. You can pretend you just want an apology. You can pretend you're just a concerned citizen who wants the person to improve. You can pretend you're simply offering a criticism when what you're really doing is attacking a person's career and reputation out of spite, envy, revenge. I mean, it could be any motivation. What reviewed James as an overprivileged, sloyal little brat and it was fun to wipe the smile off his smug face at least for a few weeks. It's shot in Freuda, right? This kind of petty sadism. Maybe not the internet's proudest moment, but not the most shameful either. And that's not to say that everyone cancelling James Charles was insincere. But there's a world of difference between cancel or kelly and cancel James Charles. And I'm interested to know how these two things came to look the same. When James was being canceled, I remember being kind of transfixed by the sight of his life and career falling from the sky. Full tailspin, black smokes, viewing out, and a lot of my YouTube friends were like, lol did you see James Charles is canceled? LOL. LOL. LOL. But I looked up at James and I said, oh God, that's going to be me someday. Stay strong, sister. Don't let them bastard, get you down. Let's switch over to white cloth. These are cute. These are fun. Little more of a feminine moment for me. They didn't even have these last time I was in alcoholic. Not in wearing makeup. I don't need makeup to serve a full biological fantasy. I kept drinking people. We're going to make it through this together. So I was doing a little Twitter archaeology when I was looking into the James Charles cancelling. And I found a bunch of tweets referencing earlier James Charles scandals. Y'all forgiving James Charles. He's still a transphobic. Y'all are acting like just because James Charles has receipts. He's no longer a racist transphobic like James Charles. It's racist, ableist, transphobic, and a sexual predator. A white woman. Y'all are being too harsh on him and he's uncancelt. So according to Twitter, James Charles is not only a sexual predator. He's also a racist and a transphob. That sounds pretty serious. Let's investigate. We'll start with a transphobic allocation. Kakarol's of the jury. Exhibit A. So you're not even full gay. I mean, no, there have been girls in the past that I've thought were really beautiful. There's also been trans guys in the past too that I would really, really into for a moment in time. And I hope as a sandweater yikes the same itchief friendly reminder that this isn't a good luck. Maybe don't be transphobic. Disappointing. So James did a fuck up here. The problem is he's suggesting that being attracted to trans men makes him less gay, which implies that trans men aren't really men, which is at odds with the way trans men understand themselves. So this does deserve criticism. No, do not. No, do not. However, what I see when I look at this clip of James is not a dyed in the wool transphobic picket. I see a very young person who's still working on understanding his own sexuality and is trying to figure out where his attraction to trans men fits into that. And it seems to me that the proportionate response to that situation is for someone to take James aside and explain to him, look, here's why what you said is hurtful to trans men. And here are some tips on how to avoid saying that kind of thing in the future. You know, ignorance is not the same thing as hatred. Not understanding someone is not the same as wanting them dead. Of course, there are committed bigots who it's just a waste of time to engage with, but sometimes just talking to someone with a little patience and understanding is all it takes. But that's not what cancel culture does. Oh no, we have to immediately escalate every situation to the highest possible level of conflict. So by abstraction, we get James Charles made transphobic comments. And by essentialism, we get James Charles is a transphob. We don't give him a chance to reflect. We don't give him an opportunity to learn. We go straight to branding him a bigot. Nonetheless, that same week James posted an apology to his sister's story saying, regardless of whatever my intentions were, that came across as me saying, I'm not fully gay because I have been with a trans man. And that is absolutely, first of all, not true. Like that doesn't make me not fully gay, but that stereotype and implication is really, really dangerous. And I'm very, very sorry. If you are a trans man, you are a man. If you're a trans girl, you are a woman. You are valid in your identity. Could you ask for a better apology? Like he not only apologizes for what he said, but he also demonstrates a clear understanding of why it was wrong. So does that mean people stopped calling him a transphob? Of course not. Cancel culture trope 5, no forgiveness. Cancelers will often dismiss an apology as insincere, no matter how convincingly written or delivered. And of course, an insincere apology is further proof of what a Machiavellian psychopath you really are. Now sometimes, a good apology will calm things down for a while, but the next time there's a scandal, the original accusation will be raised again, as if you never apologized. And that's what happened to James during the Tottie scandal when Twitter decided he was a transphobic, sexual predator. And that's to say nothing of this racism I have been hearing about. Here is the receipts, exhibit B. In February 2017, when James was much less famous than he is now, he tweeted, I can't believe we're going to Africa today, OMG, what if we get Ebola? James were fine, we could have gotten it at Chipotle last year. Okay, well, that's a little insensitive maybe. It's not really something an influencer should tweet. And fear of disease associated with Africa, I mean, I can see how it's in the same vague conceptual area as certain racist tropes. But clearly, this was intended as a joke about his friend mistaking Ebola for E. coli, right? And anyway, he did apologize, saying, as a white cis male, I recognized my privilege and would never want to take that for granted, but I fucked up. I feel awful for posting what I said. I understand why what I said was offensive and ignorant. And James hasn't made an habit of making jokes like that ever since, so... Is this one tweet from two years ago that he apologized for on its own enough evidence for us to justify labeling him a racist? Well, according to cancel culture, absolutely. Ab abstraction takes us from two years ago, James Charles made a joke that referenced his fear of getting Ebola in Africa to James Charles made a racist joke. And then essentialism takes us to, James Charles is a racist. Look, I want to pause to say, I really do believe in social justice, at least as much as trash like me believes in anything. And believe me, I am well aware that jokes, irony, and even complaints about cancel culture are often used by bigots to cloak their real agenda. Southern poverty law center even cited my video about how far-right racists use jokes and memes in mockery of SJWs as a way to camouflage their hateful beliefs and make them more palatable to a wider audience. So I'm coming at this from a place of genuine concern for anti-racism and anti-transphobia, as well as an awareness of the fact that cancel culture is often just a conservative red herring used to shut down any and all complaints about racism or transphobia. But I've also become very disillusioned with the way these accusations are thrown around so frivolously on social media, by the way they're used to escalate conflict instead of promote understanding. And by the way, there are sometimes a weaponized to destroy people who have made mistakes, but who really don't deserve to be destroyed. Now maybe you're thinking, destroyed, what do you mean destroyed? James is a 20 year old millionaire on his way to owning his own makeup empire. And you are completely correct. If you're James Charles, if you're a superstar, then being canceled most likely does not destroy you. The cancelers blend into the general backdrop of haters and they can set you back a few millions of subscribers and a lot of emotional turmoil, but in the long run they can't really touch your success. But here's the thing, what if you're not James Charles, what if you're a small creator, what if you can't afford a public relations help, what if you belong to a marginalized community and you rely on that community for support? Well in that case, it's a whole different story. Let's Irish up this coffee. Shake and not stirred spilled out of my pussy. That's good. Buzin coffee is a good combination. I'm feeling amtry. No, I'm feeling a hype. So this is a part in the video where I should admit that I'm not just a casual observer here. At the time of making this video, sweaty, I'm super canceled. You know, I try to make videos that are both informative and entertaining. So in this video, the information is you get to learn about cancel culture and the entertainment is you get to watch a worm try to wriggle off a hook. Let's get started. Forgive me, Father, for I have sent a how are you? God, I never wanted to be the kind of YouTuber who would resort to making videos about my own drama, but things have gotten to a point. I feel like I cannot continue this channel until he's built some tea. So let's get started. First, a little backstory, a little mise en scène. I've never talked about this on my channel before, so this is a super fucking vulnerable moment for me. But I am, in fact, a transgender woman, which may come as a big shock to many of you since I 100% real fash. I get comments all the time from very solemn people, like, guys. I'm pretty sure this is a dude. Great work detective. You're a cracked vacate. You're doing very good, sweetie. Very, very good. But yes, as one of YouTube's leading be list transgenders, I am a prime target for cancellation, and I have been canceled many, many times. And we're going to talk about some of the things I've been canceled for, and some of the things I've been criticized for, and the difference between criticism and canceling. Because yes, there is a difference. As we go along, I will admit where I have made mistakes because despite how I look, I am not a literal goddess, and I will apologize where I believe apologies are due. However, where I believe that criticism of me is excessive or unwarranted, I will not apologize, because here at ContraPoints Industries, we are not in the business of serving bullshit. So, the reason for my current cancellation is, in summary, that in my last video, Opulence, I cast Transsexual porn star Buck Angel in the role of John Waters. And yes, it's a much better story than the hair vitamin debacle. So, notify the drama channels, put in a good word for me, because sweetie, I'm not here to make friends. I'm here to win. So, basically, I'm canceled for collaborating with Buck Angel, and a lot of trans people think Buck Angel is a horrible person. And so, my collaboration with Buck Angel is evidence that I, too, am a horrible person. Cancer Culture Troop 6, the transitive property of cancellation. Cancellation is infectious. If you associate with a cancelled person, the cancellation rubs off. It's like gonorrhea, except doxycycline won't save you this time, sweetie. Look, this whole incident hinges, first of all, on whether Buck Angel is, in fact, a horrible person. So, who is Buck Angel? Well, he's a trans man of my parents' generation. He grew up in a world where there is not anything like the visibility and access to information about transition we have today, and where there is a strict medical gatekeeping system in place for people who wanted to transition. In fact, Buck was the first female to male patient his doctor had ever treated. In the 2000s, he rose to prominence as an adult performer, his gimmick at the time being, the man with a pussy. But he also became an activist. He wanted to create more positive trans representation within the porn world, and from there, he became a more general educator and advocate for trans people. I first heard about him in the early 2010s when I was doing some googling about some little gender issues I was having myself, but though I ended up deciding to remain a female. And Buck was one of the first female to male people I'd ever heard about. And he made an impact on me in part because you take one look at him and you think, honey, that's a man. But he was born a woman. You can do that! So, it's not like he inspired me to transition or anything. It was just one of many moments along my whole entire gender journey. So, I had positive feelings about trampa, that's three calls himself, from back then, and that a few months ago, when I was feeling angry and miserable and despised, over another time I was being canceled by trans Twitter, we'll get to that one later, I saw this post from Buck on Instagram. Dear beautiful human being, I see your pain. It is okay that you lash out at me. You do this because I am you, and you are reflecting yourself hate to me. I am strong and will be here for you forever and no matter what, this is my intention as a human being to help others love Buck Angel and the caption, suffering. That is why the trans community lashes out at each other. I am very aware of the hate towards me by someone in the community. They hate on me and others because they are hurt. And those were exactly the words I needed to hear at that moment. So, I commented a heart and then Buck deyamed me and he said, I love you. And I was like, ah, some pine noticed me and so I said I love you back. Then, when I was working on opulence, I needed a voice actor to do a line from John Waters book. And it was my co-director Theron who suggested, don't you think Buck Angel sounds kind of like John Waters? And I said, well, he just messaged me on Insta, let's see if he wants to do it. And I just loved the idea of having Buck Angel as John Waters in the video credits. Like, a trans icon playing a gay icon. And my head was just so... well, iconic. So, I got in touch with Buck about the line and he was like, yeah, I'd love to do it. So, here it is. The 10-second voiceover clip that ruined a month of my life. One must remember, there is such a thing as good bad taste and bad bad taste. To understand bad taste, one must have very good taste. That's it, children. That's why mommy is canceled. Now, I was aware at the time that trans Twitter hated Buck Angel, but my thinking was, well, trans Twitter kind of hates every trans celebrity and they certainly hate me. So, I wasn't gonna let that stop me. Little did I know. Quite how vicious things were about to get. Now, so far, I've been telling this story from my point of view, but I do want to give a fair and balanced account. So, I want to pause and contextualize why some trans people hate Buck Angel so much, they're willing to cancel anyone who even associates with him. Basically, it all goes back to this old debate in the trans community known today in Tumblr, Lingo, as True Scom versus Trans-Trenders. So, True Scom are trans people who distinguish between true trans people and fake trans people, who they call Trenders or two Cuts. Usually, True Scom think that what it is to be trans is to have a lifelong struggle with dysphoria, to pursue a medical transition involving hormones and surgery, and to socially re-assimilate into your target binary gender, so male or female. Anyone who's not that, according to True Scom, must either be a confused teenager, someone just trying to get attention, someone mistaking their trauma or their fetish for being trans, in a word, a Trender. So, that's a vage of transness that usually excludes non-binary people, as well as people who don't want to medically transition for whatever reason, and for that reason, this view is sometimes also called trans-medicalism. True Scom obviously being the derogatory term for these people. So, True Scom are very hated by a lot of trans people, because their viewpoint is that not all trans identities are valid, and Buck Angel is widely perceived to be True Scom. So, the next question to ask is, is this true? Is Buck Angel, in fact, True Scom? Now, my honest answer to that question is, I don't know. He's certainly said some things that sound like things True Scom say, I'll give you that. A point he likes to make a lot is that he's transsexual, not transgender. And the difference between those terms is sometimes defined as transsexual implies that you want to pursue medical transition. So, hormones in surgery, and transgender doesn't imply that. And people associate this, I'm transsexual, not transgender, thing with True Scom, because True Scom often call themselves transsexuals, and say that anyone who isn't a transsexual isn't really trans. And often those people will be very mean to people they call trenders, especially certain transmedicalist YouTubers like Vanessa Leblanc and 2Q Smash or 9000. 2Q Smash or 9000. Roast my back, Calvin, I dare you. But I think it's important to keep in mind that the term True Scom is a product of the 2014 Tumblr Wars, and trying to apply it to transsexual of an older generation can sometimes be misleading. Like when Buck Angel transitioned to the word transsexual was just the word for his identity, and he still identifies that way. So when younger trans people tell him it's wrong to use the word transsexual, he feels like these ungrateful millennials are invalidating his identity. And I do understand where he's coming from with that. But I also understand why a lot of non-binary people are skeptical about Buck. Like he says again and again, I'm transsexual, not transgender, like don't mix me up with those people, and that eagerness to separate himself from transgender people, it comes across as hostility. Like I don't think he's ever actually said that non-binary people aren't valid, but I personally don't like that he seems like he wants to distance himself from them. And that's my disagreement with Buck. It's not that he invalitates non-binary identities because I don't really see him doing that. And if he was doing that, I would have seen it, because for the last two months a lot of people have been doing nothing but sending me problematic Buck Angel tweets. But as someone who cares a lot about non-binary people and who loves the non-binary people in my life, it does upset me when he does this distancing thing. And I hope he listens to this criticism because I think it would be cool if he got better about this. Of course, Buck is technically right that there are different kinds of trans people. And I agree it's important that we can make those distinctions and talk about the differences when they're relevant. But I also think that as a community trans people benefit from unity, not division. Like if you have an employer who discriminates against trans people, they're not going to care if you're trans sexual transgender non-binary or gender non-conforming. They're going to discriminate against you regardless. So we're all in this together. And there's a lot of disagreements among us, and we often don't get along so well. But politically, I think we should work together as much as possible instead of splitting into little factions, because we share most of the same interests. And I think the best way to do that is to build bridges instead of burning them. And that's why I'm willing to work with people like Buck Angel who I have some disagreements with. It creates a connection, you know, and having that connection can lead to communication and build understanding. Also, I need other connections I can get. Gorge, I am very lonely. It's not a joke, it's true. Now, I get that some people have views that are so harmful that giving them a platform is potentially dangerous. But in any case, I didn't even give Buck a platform to share his opinions. I gave him a platform to be a John Waters impersonator. A bunch of people on my subreddit were like, why couldn't she just get John Waters to do those lines? Well, first of all, I don't actually know John, but I just have a feeling he would write me off as some kind of tranny millennial SJW. Like, why is Buck Angel cancelled, but John Waters isn't? Well, because Trans Twitter does not know who John Waters is. Let's try to keep it that way. I actually mentioned this to a friend of mine who knows John, and he told me that he and John have actually watched Buck Angel's porn together. So, plog twist. Okay, so Trans Twitter won't forgive me unless I condemn Buck Angel as true scum and apologize for ever working with him. But I'm not going to do that, because I don't think it would be the right thing to do. And doing it just to get myself uncanceled would be cowardly. I'm happy to tell you I absolutely disagree with Buck's divisive rhetoric about Transsexual vs Transgender. I wish you would be an ally to the whole Transgender umbrella instead of trying to distance himself from the rest. And I'm happy to hear that the perspective of non-binary people who don't trust him, because I totally get where they're coming from and I think that's valid. But I also respect the decades of good activism Buck Angel has done for Trans people. And I am grateful to him for that. In light of that, I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt about where his heart is, and express my criticism in a more measured way than just attacking who he is of the person. But Twitter needs to establish that he's a horrible person, because this is the strategy they've chosen to establish that I am a horrible person. And if the truth come allegation isn't strong enough to prove it, oh, they have other pieces of evidence to fall back on to hold up their conclusion. For example, here's a tweet claiming, Natalie's trying so fucking hard to make it sound like the only thing Buck Angel ever did was write a few iffy tweets. And that's just so fucking far from the truth. Dude launched a targeted tabloid harassment campaign outing a trans woman against her will, with a specific intent of causing her physical, emotional, and professional harm. The shorter way of saying that is that he wanted to make her suffer, and she very well could have been killed. Yikes! This ain't it, chief. Friendly reminder that this isn't a good luck. Maybe don't try to get trans women killed. Disappointing. It sounds pretty serious. Let's investigate. Here's what I've managed to piece together. Scene 1. The year is 2003. Los Angeles, where the movie world, the porn world, and the BDSM scene come together in a tale of heartbreak, betrayal, and transsexualism. La-La-land. Dramatis, Persona, Buck Angel, transsexual porn star, Ilsa Strix, Dominatrix, then wife of Buck Angel, Lana Wichowski. While the successful director of the Matrix, at the time, not yet out as a transgender woman. The synopsis is that Ilsa Strix and Buck Angel's marriage ended after Ilsa had an affair with Lana Wichowski, who was not yet out of his trans. So Buck was understandably upset about the affair, and in what seems like a petty actor of revenge, told a series of magazines that this celebrity director Wichowski was a cross-trusser who had stolen his wife, which I guess was the information he had at the time. So is that outing a trans woman against her will? Well in retrospect, it seems like it, though, that may not be what he thought he was doing at the time. But to really get to the bottom of this, we have to do some digging. We have to troll through the dirty details of trans people's personal histories, which I've noticed is one of the internet's favorite activities. So I actually went on eBay, and I purchased Rolling Stone issue 991 January 2006, and I'm finally able to reveal... ...that the seller cancelled the order. God damn it! But I was finally able to track down and translate a Spanish version of the Rolling Stone article from the way back machine, and I'm finally able to expose the truth. Stop! Freeze exactly where you are! Take a look at yourself, and what all of us have been doing for the last 30 seconds. Who does this behavior remind you of? If your answer is social justice advocates fighting for trans equality, you are incorrect. If your answer is creepy stalkers who hate trans people, I am very suspicious of anyone who's online behavior prompts me to dig through articles full of dead names and sorted scandals involving trans people from almost two decades ago. This is very similar to techniques used against trans people by internet fascists. So I'm pretty suspicious of anyone pushing this kind of investigation. How can you tell the difference between a trans anarcho-socialist with an anime avatar and a Nazi pretending to be a trans anarcho-socialist with an anime avatar? Well, you can't. Anonymous is anonymous is anonymous, whether it's on 4chan or Twitter. Unless Buck Angel, Ilsa Strix or Lana Wachowski gets in touch with me, and lets me know that for some unimaginable reason they want me to publicly dig up their 17-year-old divorce drama, this is none of my fucking business. And it's none of yours either, so shut up and go back to Keeley Farms where you belong. Let's Irish up this tea. Doesn't work as well with tea. So, setting aside any tabloid drama that may have happened during the Bush administration. I'm saying this in a context way, and they deserve it. They fucking deserve the continuous. I'm spilling whiskey tea all over my goddamn bathroom. I'm a lady. She's a woman. The main argument against me usually references a collage of Buck Angel's problematic tweets. And this is supposed to be definitive evidence that he is a horrible person, and therefore that I am a horrible person for collaborating with him. Well, here's the thing though. A collage of problematic tweets does not define a person, and I'm very used to being defined that way myself, so I know how unfair it can be. Before I ever collaborated with Buck Angel, a lot of people on Twitter were already calling me Truscom. That's been going on a year and a half now. In any time my name comes up on Twitter, a bunch of people respond saying Natalie is Truscom, Natalie is a transmedicist, Natalie hates non-binary people, and you should really think what kind of message you're sending to your trans and non-binary followers by platforming her. The person defends me or argues back in any way. They say, I can't believe you're ignoring the valid concerns of marginalized people. You know, they're weaponizing their marginalized status as trans people to isolate and attack another trans person. And sometimes this stuff gets to my head too. I start asking myself, wait, am I a transmedicist? Do I really believe all these awful things they say I believe? The answer is, no, I just don't. These things they're saying about me are 100% not true. You know, believe marginalized people is a norm that has encouraged and leftist spaces for good reason, much like believe victims or believe women. And these norms were established to counterbalance the mainstream tendency, which is not to listen to marginalized people or to victims or to women. But any norm can be abused, and the blunt fact of the matter is sometimes marginalized people are wrong. Sometimes people calling themselves victims are obscuring a more complicated situation. And it's even happened once or twice that a woman has lied. And the accusation that I'm true scum is simply false. I mean, first of all, I don't even think of my own trans-genderism as a medical disorder. Much less everyone else's. I have of course collaborated with Dr. Spiegel at all, but I will not have my artistry reduced to mere medicine. Second, this accusation that I hate non-binary people is just... no! No! Ehh... No! My thinking about trans-identity has always been informed by non-binary people. I used to identify as non-binary myself before I medically transitioned, and some of the closest people to me in my life today are non-binary trans people. Some of whom are also transactuals, incidentally. It's complicated. I've also made at least five videos on this channel arguing for the validity of non-binary gender identities going back more than three years. Five out of around 50 videos, or 10% of the content I've made on this channel, is about non-binary identity. A few months ago, I even made a 30-minute video called Trans-Trenders, which uses character dialogue to show what I think are the shortcomings of trans-medicalism. But there's still hundreds of people on Twitter saying that I'm true scum who hates non-binary people. And their main piece of evidence for that is a collage of my problematic tweets. So let's take a look at that. Here's the three tweets that I usually see scrapbooked together as definitive proof that I hate non-binary people. This is the first one from September 2018. Notice how it's taken out of context from the thread so you can't even see what I'm talking about. I'm sure this is not the experience of many NBs. NB means non-binary people. I leave it to them to articulate what NB existence looks like in a binary world. I do not, and I cannot speak for them. But surely, and I can't, gotta use to write like such a nerd. But surely an account that begins and ends with I'm not a man because I don't identify as one is pretty weak. Okay, when I wrote the Twitter thread that that tweet has been clipped out of, I was defending myself from accusations that my most recent video at the time, The Aesthetic, was a non-binary. In that video, there's a character named Justine, who defends a version of the Performativity Theory of Gender. And basically, I made this video to express some angst I was feeling about the pressures of transitioning in the public eye. This was a very one year on hormones moment for me, and I've already moved on in my thinking. At that time, I was very, um, my behavior must be perfectly feminine and all times, or else I'm not really a woman. Myself's theme is totally based on sleeping with heterosexual mannerism and my father. Mmmmmmmm. And anyone who knows anything about trans women knows that most of us go through a stage like this at some point. And some YouTubers never get out of it. But personally, I mean these days, it doesn't matter what I wear. It's when I dream their little dreams. Ahaha! Dragging the Danish girl. Well fuck the Danish. I could never abide that sort of person. We all know what I'm talking about. You can tell though, the whiskey's getting to me because I'm being bigoted against the Danish. These things come out, you know. You get honest, you get real when you get a little bit of the Irish in your system. Did I just fucking put lipstick outside the fucking lip liner? This is all Lily's fault. Lily Alba fuck her dreams. The point is, when I was making the aesthetic, I wasn't even thinking about non-binary people. And people will say that the fact that not every video I make crevices non-binary people is itself and be phobic. As I've said, about one in ten of my videos is about non-binary identity. But not all of them are. And I feel entitled to make some videos that are just about trans women. But still, some people on Twitter were saying that the character Justine is a transmedicalist. And because she maybe wins the fictional debate in the video, I, Natalie Wynn, am therefore a transmedicalist. Here's the thing though. The performativity theory of gender, the one that Justine defends in that video, is conceptually as far away from transmedicalism as it is possible to be. Transmedicalism says that trans identity is biological, it's neurological, it's hormonal, it's diagnosable and treatable. Whereas, performativity says that gender is gesture, it's expression, it's performance, it's a social phenomenon. Phenomenon, phenomenon, phenomenon, phenomenon, phenomenon. Performativity makes no reference to gender dysphoria or to any kind of medical concept at all. So whereas transmedicalism is a kind of bio-essentialism, performativity is a kind of social constructionism. So these are exact opposite theories of gender. Are you following along class? I'm not. Ready to drink Jameson and T. Intala died. But some trans people felt invalidated by things Justine says in that video. And transmedicalism is another thing that makes them feel invalidated. So they decided that Justine is a transmedicalist, and therefore that I am a transmedicalist. And this is literally just bad media comprehension. Like it's a failure to plausibly interpret a video that some people did find genuinely emotionally difficult. And so much of the negative response to that video is just pure emotion. I always hear, I don't care what you intended, trans people were hurt by that video. You hurt trans people. But here's the thing, just because you were hurt by content I made doesn't mean that the content is bad, or that I'm victimizing you in some way. I'll give you an example. I did a stream a couple years ago with a BDSM and Kink activist. We're talking about various kinks and we got to DDLG, which is Daddy Don Little Girl. Basically when consenting adults roleplay age difference and the power dynamic that comes with that. And me and this kink activists were just casually discussing what DDLG is, what it isn't. When I noticed someone in the chat was starting to totally freak out. They were typing in all caps like, my abuser used DDLG to justify raping me. Why are you defending my abuser? I can't believe you'd betray me like this. Please stop taking my abuser's side. Please stop, I'm begging you. This was actually really fucking upsetting to me because this person was clearly in a lot of pain. They were having a panic attack because they were having a trauma trigger reaction to this conversation. And I kept telling them to leave the stream and take care of themselves, but they wouldn't do it. So I had to block them and then later get in touch and make sure they were okay. Now, was their pain very real? Yes, was it triggered by the content that was streaming? Yes, but does that mean I did anything wrong? No. Is it wrong to talk about kink and context where it's clear you're going to be talking about kink? No, but when you produce content online that's going to be viewed by thousands or millions of people, there's always some people out there who are going to be hurt by it. So if you want to argue that a tweet or a video I made is somehow immoral, I think you need more of an argument than just people were hurt. Alright, back to the tweet. To this day, people quote tweet the sentence, but surely an account that begins and ends with I'm not a man because I don't identify as one is pretty weak. And they claim this is evidence that I'm true scum or that I think people have to prove their identity somehow, which is not at all what I was saying in that thread. What I was saying is if you're trying to persuade a skeptic that trans identity is valid, simply saying I'm not a man because I don't identify as one isn't a very good argument, which it isn't. I mean, no one has ever been persuaded by that so far as I'm aware. That said, I do now disagree with the mindset I had when I tweeted this. Back then, I still delusionally believed that it was possible to rationally explain why trans identity is valid. And I was simply looking for a more persuasive argument than this is how I identify you have to believe me no further questions. But I no longer believe there can be any rational justification of gender identity, which is another reason I'm not a transmedicalist. Transmedicalism tries to be a rational theory about why trans identity is valid, and I don't think it succeeds as that. I don't think anything does. The current opinion about this is that I'm not a man because I don't identify as one is as good or rather as bad an argument as any. You know, some things in life just can't be rationally explained, like love. Why do you love the person you love? Well, because you love them. You could write a poem about it or some gay shit like that, but you can't give any actual arguments. And why am I a woman? Because I'm a woman. That's it. I mean, I can describe my experiences and my feelings to you to help you understand better. But I can't logically prove anything. And I'm super fucking sorry if you can't handle that mankind was set a drift in an absurd world. That must be super fucking hard for you. Tell me all about it. Next, please. Okay, again, we're mid thread with missing context, but the tweet says, whereas I've met 20 year olds and full on boy mode who are like, hi, I'm a trans woman. She her pronouns. So I guess by including this tweet and the contra points is problematic collage, people are implying that I don't think it's valid for someone who presents mail to identify as a woman and request she her pronouns. Well, that's not true. I was surprised when I first experienced this, but I think it's valid. Next. Okay, mid thread, no context once again. But now you go into these leftist discord slash Facebook groups and like 20 to 30% identify as some flavor of trans. Most of them are not conventional binary transsexuals. That seems to be the future. Okay, well, it's true that many leftist discord servers are like this. But reading this back, I don't like the way the phrase conventional binary transsexuals is hitting my ear. I can see how it could imply that non-binary identities are somehow newfangled, which isn't true. There's been non-binary people for longer than there's been medical transsexuals in fact. So we'll call this a bad tweet. I apologize for tweeting it and I apologize to any non-binary people who felt trivialized by it. Okay, this is the big one. This tweet got its own article in the fucking Guardian. You know, I really wish people would pay less attention to the tweets I spend 30 seconds writing and a little more attention to the videos that I spend, you know, hundreds of hours making. Anyway, let's look at the tweet. This is the most scrutinized paragraph I've ever written, and it's so mediocre. This has happened to me before in hyper-woke spaces. Like it's me and a bunch of cis women, and we all have to go into circles saying she heard because I'm there. There's this paradox where I can go to a sports bar in North Carolina and be mismaned all night, no question. But in self-consciously trans-inclusive spaces, I have to explain my pronouns and watch woke people awkwardly correct themselves. Every time they say, you guys. I guess it's good for people who use they them only and want only gender-neutral language, but it comes at the minor expense of semi-passable transes like me, and that's super fucking hard for us. So people interpreted this tweet as me being against the practice of sharing pronouns, which I'm literally just not. Like, I've actually been the person who initiates the pronoun circle many times. The backstory of this tweet is basically that I once got triggered in a situation where I was with a bunch of cis women, and we all had to go around saying our pronouns, and like a typical triggered train, I tiptoed over to Twitter to tip top, type it out. But here's the thing, but the end of this thread I had already talked myself away from the initial frustration I was expressing. If you know my videos in my voice, then you know me saying it comes at the minor expense of semi-passable transes, and that's super fucking hard for us. It's sarcastic. It's a minor expense. It's not actually very hard for us, Gorge. It's fine. But people on Twitter don't watch my videos, and they don't get sarcasm. So people flipped out over this. I was getting dragged, and I made the poor decision to try to solve the tweet problem with more tweeting, which 100% of the time is like trying to put out a fire with lighter fluid. So me and my dumb brain did another short thread trying to clarify what I was saying and defending my right to talk about my own experiences. And that didn't make things any better, so in a state of anger and frustration, I tweeted out yet another thread. And this time I said some truly stupid things, including the now infamous line, I sometimes feel like the last of the old school transsexuals. I honestly don't know what the fuck I was even trying to say. I don't feel like the last of the old school transsexuals. I don't even know what that means. I basically meant that offline, I don't have any radical aspirations. You know, I want to be inconspicuous. I want to blend in. And that's what I meant by old school. You know, I want people to assume my pronouns. You know, it's funny because it is very different from the way I am online, where I'm totally shameless and open. I'm like sexual confession, everybody. Sexual confession. I have abnormal urges. It's one I am. My neighbors can definitely hear that. I have abnormal urges now. They already knew that. But offline, I'm an inconspicuous pussy, like a total coward. So, this was a rage thread. And I apologize for tweeting it. Let's go back to bug Angel. I'm kind of a conscientious objecture to the practice of condemning someone based on a collage of their worst tweets taken out of context. But I definitely do have anxiety about this. Like, I think I'm doing the right thing by not condemning bug as true scum and evil. But I mean, I could be wrong. What if I am basically sacrificing myself for the sake of a person who really is as bad as Twitter says? Maybe tomorrow he'll tweet, fuck non-binary people. And then I'll have fucked up. This whole thing is incredibly stressful to me. But I do believe that by refusing to participate in the anti-buck angel pile on, I am airing on the morally safer side of things. Because even if he is a little true scummy, excommunicating him from the trans community is still probably not the best approach to take. In my experience, when people accept binary, but not non-binary trans people, it usually takes like a 30-minute conversation to win them over to some level of non-binary acceptance. And I'll give you a couple examples. The first time I was ever canceled, like, totally trashed on Twitter, was back in 2017. When I had not yet medically transitioned, and at the time, I identified as non-binary. And at VidCon 2017, I met up with a YouTuber named June, who had made some videos where she basically mocked the idea of non-binary people. And I posted a picture of the brunch I had with June and some other people, but let's keep them out of it. And people on Twitter totally dragged me for being a peak liberal bootlicker, whose best friends with transphobic abusers. Oh, Christ. It's fucking people, man. It's so fucking frustrating. And, you know, I'm not going to claim I changed June's mind because I don't know what her thought process was. But I did talk to her about non-binary identity, and she did remove her anti-non-binary videos. And I don't have any regrets about that brunch. Ah! Example 2. A couple of months later, I did a live stream with a conservative trans woman YouTuber named, um... What was her name? Sharon? Sharon? Was it Sharon? I guess she's just not a very memorable person. Anyway, she had made some videos saying that non-binary identities aren't real, but I gave her a chance, and she surprised me by being super compassionate and thoughtful. By the end of that stream, she was pretty much totally accepting of my identity. So again, the point is not that I'm some kind of persuasive genius. If I was a persuasive genius, maybe I could talk myself out of being canceled. The point is that sometimes people who seem ignorant or hateful just need to be given a non-judgmental space to learn and grow and think. And to just condemn them as hopeless bigots actually prevents that growth from happening. And Sharon, despite her, you know, totally forgettable personality, turned out to be an incredibly open-minded person. Like later on, she actually made an apology video to non-binary people, and I became good friends with her. And we worked together on most of the videos I've made this year, you know, until she ruined my life by recommending a canceled John Waters impersonator. I guess the moral is, never talk to people you disagree with. It will only lead to pain. I do think there's something off with my hormone dose like, I'm crying three times a day. Oh, and I can't comment unless there's vibrators in at least three of my holes. It happens like once a month, there has to be a full moon. I honestly only still bother because it numbs the pain for a few moments. What I'm trying to say is, I really do believe in conversation, which means hearing out multiple perspectives. I don't want my audience to get all their information about trans people from me, and I think it's important to listen to criticism. So I encourage my audience to go watch some non-binary YouTubers who have criticized me and criticized Buck Angel. For example, go check out non-binary YouTuber Luxander's video about me, and non-binary YouTuber Corvides video about Buck Angel. I think YouTube, as a platform, is better at producing criticism rather than canceling. And I think that's because, at least in the vlog format, making a video forces you to confront the fact that you're a human being with a face and a name, who can be held accountable for the things that you say. But people on Twitter, it's a different story. And I think it's time we take a look at what canceling really is. I've given you enough context now for you to understand what I'm about to show you, which is what I saw on my timeline every day for nearly a month. All these tweets are from the aftermath of my uploading opulence two months ago, when the Buck Angel scandal first broke. And so I'm better hold my hand now, because this gets ugly. Hey, if any of you still support contra points after her bigging up in collaborating with notable turf favorite and true scumbuck angel, you're no friend to gender non-conforming, non-passing and non-binary trans people. Buck her, and fuck her fucking rift. I am absolutely furious right now. Weird how I'm 30 and trans and manage not to be a truce gum. Maybe I'm just some kind of anomaly. Or maybe contra points is a conniving rat fucking tapo who could do with a fully wound backhand to the mouth. Since I'm out of Twitter jail now, I just want to say fuck contra points for a sycophantic stance and all her bread-to-b chub is who close ranks to protect her after she throws the rest of the trans community under the bus for profit. Natalie Wynne is a fucking grifter. Contra points videos are now just style over substance, so that explains why she took to turf ideology so well. Contra points working with true scumbun now definitively proves that pretty much everyone defending contra points just hates and b's. And are also true scumbun. Legit gonna start unfollowing peeps that continue to follow contra points at this point. Do know my wording of pretty much everyone. I know there are some that were probably blindsided by this somehow. So long as you know that contra points is true scumbun, you're safe and cool. Each shit Natalie, for someone who used to identify as gender queer, we expected more from you, but I guess when your heads this far up your own ass, it's hard to consider others. Contra points, more like disappointments. That's a good one. If you're gonna drag me at least be funny. Fuck, fuck, angel. Fuck contra points. Fuck any real, transsexual. Fuck your grift. Here's what hashtag contra points stands don't understand. If Natalie refuses to accept that she has an apology to make and continues profiting from it, it will become our responsibility to work on deep platforming her just like every other racist, sexist, bigoted, content creator. Someone has actually suggested or attempted to actually cancel her, but the longer this goes on without an apology and commitment to do better, the stronger the case becomes for actively working to de-platform her. So in other words, no one has suggested we cancel her, but we should cancel her. Read. Can everyone finally agree that contra points belongs directly inside a garbage can? Here I am, sweetie. Contra points collaborating with Angel Buck. Angel Buck. Thanks for letting us all know that you had no idea who he even was until Twitter notified you what to be outraged about. Contra points collaborating with Angel Buck, a trans medicalist who wants outed a trans person to try and destroy them and supporting him because he looks and sounds like a proper man isn't a small, itty bitty, tipsy, topsy fucking mistake. This is a huge deal. Contra points could be literally collaborating with Hitler. We have a Hitler comparison. Could be literally collaborating with Hitler today. And you all would be like, oh well, she's just a little flawed, you know. Fuck off. Can Natalie Wynne stop being a coward and commit to being a trans med? It's really tiring to watch this happen every week. Natalie Wynne is a spoiled brat who refuses to take accountability. Anyone who supports Natalie Wynne does not support non-binary people. Natalie Wynne is such a terrible person. My God, every cis and not non-binary person who thought Natalie Wynne wasn't transmed now owes me and every non-binary person $50. Joe Biden has a better position on the validity of non-binary gender than contra points. My opinion is that contra points really sucks a lot and I don't like her. I hate contra points so goddamn much it's unbelievable. Contra points be like, this is a very good impression of me. You're doing very good, sweetie. You're doing very, very good. Buck Angel is a turf apologizer, boot looker, and truss gun. Any association with him must be seen as hostile to the trans community as a whole that alone denial of non-binary existence. That's the line in the sand, folks. Where do you stand? And here we fucking overdue. Buck fucking angel on contra points. Eat my entire ass. What? This is Natalie. Natalie is a trans medicalist. This is Natalie's friend Lindsay. Lindsay is a left-tuber. Natalie and Lindsay are still friends because Natalie and Lindsay are both cowards. Left-tubers are grieved. Oh, they made me the man. The shade. Issues that arose with whoo-whoo-whoo-being-in-contra's new video. Her video on turf's make no sense now. Her video on trans trenders make no sense now. You know, if your interpretation of why I cast Buck Angel totally contradicts the videos I spent hundreds of hours making, do you think maybe your interpretation could be wrong? Apparently not. Her apology is completely floyd. Sends a message that she hates non-binary people. She is reckless with her content. Positive set arose from Buck Angel being in contra's new video. She has $400,000 this month from Patreon. $400,000. This number is completely made up. Like, it is exponentially wrong. $400,000. $400,000 a month. Hod take. Contra points is the leftist PewDiePie. Personally, I like to characterize her as the Blair White Wolf and leftist sheep's clothing. Reminder that Contra points is a piece of shit who still has not apologized for platforming truce gum and is actively taking their side. Anyway, if you still support Contra points, get the hell away from me. P-P-Poo-Poo. I'm Contra points and I can't stop being a trans-medicalist and shitting myself in public. Uhhh. Valid criticisms of marginalized people. Fuck Contra points. Fuck truce gum. Contra points is a truce gum. Contra points is a truce gum. Contra points is a truce gum. Contra points is a truce gum. Contra points is a truce gum. You know, when you repeat the same fucking sentence over and over and over again, it does. You know, when you repeat the same sentence over and over again, it does. Actually, it doesn't get more persuasive. In fact, it might get less persuasive because true things usually only have to be said once. If you still support Contra points, unfollow me immediately and never interact with me again. In conclusion, fuck Natalie Winn and fuck everything she has to say. Okay, let's get started. So that was just a sample of hundreds and hundreds of tweets. And all of this, let me remind you, is over a 10-second voiceover clip in a 48-minute video about a completely unrelated topic. Like, how do you work? How do you create when a decision so trivial can become the main event for weeks of your life? And the tweets are just the beginning. After that, there's the Reddit threads and the YouTube comments and the Facebook discourse and the Medium posts and the Newsweek article. Opulence is a video. Me and Theran spent hundreds of hours carefully piecing together. I think it's my best video. And to have the response to it completely overwhelmed by one minor casting decision is heartbreaking and infuriating to me. And it's left me with much less energy to create new things. But here's the thing. People on Twitter saying mean things about me is not the worst of it. Not even close. Like, I'm a politically opinionated trans woman who publicly transitioned while making anti-fascist content on a notoriously right-wing platform. Ah, sweaty, I am so used to reading mean things about myself online. Most of you probably can't even begin to imagine how used to it I am. And the way you psychologically survive in that situation is you block the people and platforms who are harassing you and you pay it no mind. But there's some things you can't block. And a big one is you can't block people from going after your friends and colleagues. And that is exactly what people did to me at the height of the Buck Angel incident. Lindsay Ellis, Ollie from Philosophy Tube and H. Bomberguy all got inundated with tweets demanding that they publicly disown me. A person they've all been friends with for years or else. In response to demands that she apologize, Lindsay released a statement where she said, I was not involved in opulence. My name was mentioned in it, but I did not participate in the production. Therefore, with regards to calls from me to apologize, I have to ask, apologize for what? There is only one logical answer. Apologize for being friends with Natalie. And here's a response to her statement. You need to consider you my fucking friend to disagree with beliefs you knowingly solicit or allow on your platform. Same with Contra. It just means you're willing to allow awful ideas to fester for the sake of financial gain, which is fine, but it makes you a piece of shit. And here's a comment at H. Bomberguy. I doubt that you were going to read this, but can you please just tell us your thoughts on that whole situation? We could at least know that you were on our side. We don't want to have to cancel all of y'all and cause bread tobe to go into a schism as a result of this. Thank you. Nice YouTube channel you have fair friend. Would be ashamed if someone cancelled it. So fucking sinister. Oli of Philosophy Tube released his own statement, affirming his support of non-binary people, but adding, sadly I've also been harassed, threatened, doxed, had my private life speculated on, and my loved ones insulted. In recognizing the feelings of those who kindly raised their concerns in a polite way, I do not wish to legitimize the great many people who use their hurt as a cover for unacceptable toxic abuse of behavior. And here's some responses to Oli. As a non-binary fan of yours, I'm disappointed in this non-apology. Again, what exactly is he supposed to be apologizing for? Ever having associated with me? Things we are going to criticize Oli of Philosophy Tube for. Being a sniveling, hypocritical piece of shit, refusing to listen to trans people actively openly and repeatedly mocking the trans people he refuses to listen to. Thanks for the apology. Now stop indoors and contra-poins. Now keep in mind that what these Twitter people are doing is demanding that cis people publicly condemn a trans woman for loosely associating with another trans person. Does that strike anyone else's wildly inappropriate? Even me a molder, a trans woman who is never publicly associated with me got attacked because she tweeted a heart at Oli, you know, after he made the post discussing being doxed and threatened. And just for that, she gets put on the animal list. I'm sad to say that Mia is on the list of people that have stood by contra-poins as she's continued to be a bigoted piece of shit to which Mia responds, stood by contra-poins, Jesus Christ. No matter what I do, people call me out and I'm not even related to the video and I don't even know Natalie. The chain of guilt by association is so long and twisted, I can barely even follow it. So they're going after Mia who tweeted a heart at Oli who failed to condemn me for my voiceover casting of Buck Angel who was retweeted by a turf. We're only missing a couple degrees of separation before every living person on the planet Earth is canceled over the Buck Angel situation. And several colleagues have mined by the way, Lindsay Harry Oli, they all took a financial hit over this. They've all lost some Patreon support. One of Lindsay's former supporters even demanded a $38 lifetime refund saying, Dear Lindsay, I'm sorry for being pushy, but I really am going to be needing a refund. I gave money to your operation under the pretense that you wouldn't do anything morally objectionable and supporting contra-poins and blaming us for taking issue with thought is, in my opinion, a moral. Please respond. I hope she sent it to them in pennies. So look, I'm very grateful to my colleagues for sticking by me through all this, but I'm also aware that I'm becoming a burden to anyone who associates with me. I have no collaborators in this video, I'm working on this totally alone because I'm aware of how radioactive I am right now, and I don't want to contaminate anyone else. During the height of this most recent canceling, a creator I admire DMed me to let me know, I cut the shout out to you in my last video because I was nervous to draw the eye of your detractors who are getting genuinely scary, but I wouldn't want you to think I was disavow you, regardless of how many people are asking me to. Jesus Christ! The situation here is that any cis person who defends me or even associates with me in any way will be labeled a transphope. Any binary trans person who associates with me will be branded an NB-phope. And any non-binary people who associate with me will be ostracized from their own community. So in the end of the minute I find myself increasingly alone, I'm isolated by the harassment. That is ultimately the point, to exile me from my community, from any community. And it's all because I refuse to participate in doing exactly that to bug Angel. My experiences have made me so disillusioned with the idea that social media callouts can lead to any kind of justice that have essentially sworn off participating in them. There's a fairly prominent figure in leftist politics who I could absolutely hash tag me too, but I'm never going to do it, because I have no faith left in the process of calling me an angel. And the process of callout vigilante justice. It am not synonymous totally against me towing people, because I think in some cases it totally is the brave and admirable thing to do. But in my case, I feel like I just know too much about the dark side of social media shaming to ever want to participate in it again. You know, I feel like the story would end up being taken out of my control, warped and twisted in all kinds of unpredictable ways. It would end up just haunting both me and the person I'd be accusing, which in this case honestly neither of us deserves. So I'm just not willing to take that risk, except maybe in some very extreme situation, which this just isn't. It's not worth it. And likewise, when a mob is at my doorstep demanding I can dembug Angel to save myself from cancellation, no! I'm just not going to do that. I'm a conscientious objector. I'm willing to go to Twitter jail for this. Take me away boys! If there's one thing I can't stand, it's bread tube videos. Part 8 and a half. The philosophy of being fucked in the ass. Ugh, I have done this to YouTube. And I'm sorry. I'm not a cop. Canceling is not criticism. It is not holding someone accountable. It is an attack on a human being. In this video, I used the word canceling more or less synonymously with what feminist show Freeman, author of the Bitch Manifesto, calls Trashing. And I've linked her essay Trashing the Dark Side of Sisterhood and the Description. It is not only published in Miz Magazine in 1976, but it is a perfect description of what goes on on Twitter today. It is not disagreement, it is not conflict, it is not opposition. These are perfectly originary phenomena, which, when engaged in mutually honestly and not excessively, are necessary to keep an organism or organization healthy and active. Trashing is a particularly vicious form of character assassination, which amounts to psychological rape. It is manipulative, dishonest, and excessive. It is occasionally disguised by the rhetoric of honest conflict, or covered up by denying that any disapproval exists at all. But it is not done to expose disagreements or resolve differences. It is done to disparage and destroy. Whatever methods are used, Trashing involves a violation of one's integrity, a declaration of one's worthlessness, and an impugning of one's motives. In effect, what is attacked is not one's actions or one's ideas, but one's self. And that's what distinguishes Trashing, bullying, or abuse from criticism or holding accountable. Criticism attacks your actions or beliefs. But when people are canceling me, they're not bringing up my problematic tweets because they want me to revise my beliefs. No, what they're doing is accumulating evidence to support the case they've decided to make that I am a horrible person who must be shunned. You know, the only sense in which I am, as they like to say, the new Blair White, is that I think I actually have now snatched a Vanessa's crown as the most hated Trant on Trantwitter. Vanessa, I'm trying to feud with you. Fude with me, Goddammit. You can have a one-sided feud. I don't want to be one of those trans YouTubers that just drags other trans people all day and they never respond. That would be really pathetic. The New Lazy Green, that's the other one. The newest in a series of women you've decided to treat like super villains. Maybe reflect on that habit a little bit. And super villain is the right word. Like, I'm the bad guy. I'm the enemy. And what you do with the enemy. Well, you disavow, disown, de-platform, and destroy. As that one tweet put it, that's the line in the sand folks. Where do you stand? If you adequately demonstrate your searing hatred of Natalie Winn, then you're safe and cool. But if you don't, you're on the wrong side of the lion sweaty. And you too are now the enemy. Cancel culture trope 7. Dualism. Certain ancient religions teach their followers to understand the cosmos as they struggle between light and dark, good and evil. And cancel culture does more or less the same thing. It's binary thinking, people are either good or they're bad. And add to that essentialism. If a person says or does a bad thing, we should interpret that as the mask slipping. As a momentary glimpse of their essential wickedness. And anyone who wants to remain good had better be willing to publicly condemn anyone the community has decided is bad. There really is something dystopian about this. You have to be willing to accuse other people to prove your own innocence. That's the line in the sand folks. Where do you stand? In the most extreme version of this, all bad people are equally bad. So collaborating with truce gum means you may as well be a truce gum. And of course being truce gum is tantamount to being a turf. And on Twitter, it is a known fact that terfs are Nazis. And this implies that Nazis, terfs, truce gum, people who associate with truce gum, people who fail to condemn people who associate with truce gum, people who offer emotional support to people who fail to condemn people who fail to condemn people who fail to be a truce gum. All of them must be treated the same way. Deplatform are just like every other racist, sexist, bigoted content creator. A fully wound backhand to the mouth. I recently read a book by Sarah Schulman called Conflict is not abuse. Overstating harm, community responsibility and the duty of repair. Basically Schulman's argument is that in various contexts from romantic relationships to community infighting to international politics, the overstatement of harm is used as a justification for cruelty and for escalating conflict. So for example, and this is my example, not Schulman's, terfs, fixate on the exaggerated danger that trans women supposedly pose to cis women. And in very classic overstatement of harm, they'll describe everything they don't like as rape. Trans women entering women's spaces is rape. Trans women existing, Janice Raymond is rape. And then they use that exaggerated harm as a justification to retaliate against them to docks and harass and shun. Well, the same kind of logic is used to justify abusive behavior within the trans community, the dualistic thinking, the essentialism, the pseudo moralism. All of this allows people on Twitter to treat me in an obviously abusive way all the while feeling like they're doing the right thing because they're attacking the enemy. And I realize that some people will say that I'm the one who's overstating harm to evade criticism. Well, look, you've seen the tweets, the furious demands for me to be exiled, the docksing and threatening and ordering around of my colleagues, the attempts to isolate me from my community, the attacks not on my actions, but on who I am as a person. There's not really anything ambiguous about this. It's just abuse. But I don't think it feels like abuse to the people who are doing it. They feel like they're punching up because I must celebrity without platform and lots of Twitter followers. And it's true that I do have more power than any of them individually. But as a collective, they have a terrifying power that they don't seem to be aware of as individuals. As John Ronson, author of a great book on public shaming put it, I suppose that when shamings are delivered like remotely administered drone strikes, nobody needs to think about how ferocious our collective power might be. The snowflake never needs to feel responsible for the avalanche. And that's how you get these situations where you have hundreds of people endlessly bashing someone who's already been knocked to the ground and feeling all the while like they're punching up. You know, there's actually a kind of power and safety and anonymity and obscurity. And there are many ways that being a public figure makes you really vulnerable. For example, you're more vulnerable to doxing, stalking, and harassment on a scale that most people probably can't even imagine. You're vulnerable to having your reputation permanently degraded in a way that people who are posting anonymously or pseudonymously are pretty much invulnerable to. And a lot of the people who are attacking me, they're not pausing to self-reflect. They're not holding themselves accountable for the consequences of their actions. They're just venting their unfiltered rage. But in response to these attacks, I, as a powerful person with a platform, I'm not allowed to react like a human being. I'm not allowed to get angry. I'm not allowed to show pain. I'm not allowed to get defensive. I'm not allowed to lash out. All I'm allowed to do is go totally nama the inside as I try to frantically calculate the ideal public relations response that pays due to deference to the valid concerns of these poor marginalized people, all the while ignoring the tsunami of verbal abuse that's crashing over me. You know, people on Twitter, they don't try to persuade me like I'm a human being. They order me around, they tell me what to believe, they demand that I say exactly what they want me to say or else. It's extremely objectifying. They don't treat me like a person with my own opinions and feelings. They treat me as this like brand of moral commodity to be consumed or denounced. And this is all terribly ironic because of the conflicting demand that creators be authentic all the time. The thing that always frustrates me about these situations is there's this demand that you apologize instantly and there's this perception that a fast apology is more sincere than a delayed one. But in fact, the opposite is true. It takes longer than a couple hours to cool down, lower your defenses, listen, learn, grow, seriously reflect on what you may have done or said that was wrong that can take days or weeks or months. I had to do my October AMA stream for Patreon and at the beginning of this stream, I gave my emotional half-formed reaction to the Buc angel situation. And some traitor on my Patreon transcribed that part of this stream and disseminated it on Twitter just to instigate another round of canceling. You're not allowed a chance to think or feel. And because supposedly the best thing to do from a PR perspective is to apologize immediately, canceling produces a lot of insincere bullshit apologies from people who haven't in fact learned anything. And I think most people are aware of that. In fact, I think the demand for an apology itself is often insincere. If you're being canceled rather than criticized, then the line in the sand has been drawn. You and all your kin have been declared the enemy. Apologize to Twitter. At this point, I may as well apologize to 4chan. Dear 4chan, I am super fucking sorry I called you thin-risted otaku shit weasels who like looking at pictures of little girls. I have been trying to educate myself and learn from my mistakes and I now realize that's only 70% of you. Like once you're canceled, you can really do no right. If you apologize, the apology will be declared a manipulative attempt to say a face. And in fact it will be used as further evidence of what a Machiavellian psychopathy really are. If you try to explain or defend yourself, I mean first of all, you will almost certainly dig yourself in deeper. But even if you're articulate and correct, you'll still be seen as unable to take criticism and as ignoring the hurt of marginalized people. And if you just go silent, you'll be seen as a coward fleeing accountability. Even though there's lots of reasons why you might go silent. Maybe you're taking a few days away from social media to try to cool down and think clearly, or maybe you're so overwhelmed by the harassment that you've just shut down. Let's do shots. You want to do a shot with me? Do you want to do a shot with me? Let's do a shot. A tequila shot is my favorite. I like the whole salt tequila lime ritual. It's just very satisfying to me. It's the end of that bottle. Okay, let's get started. If you'll warm right away, you know, feeling worse like, oh, hey, how are you? Happiness? Hey, how are you? Feeling that life is worth living? It's a good moment. You're like, oh, this isn't okay. This is going to be okay. I can get through this. It's how it starts. I really don't like to represent myself as a victim. That's not really a narrative that I identify with. But for the purposes of communicating what effect canceling has, I feel like I should say something about the pain. Much of the happiness that you might expect to come along with success has been taken away from me by this constant fury that surrounds me. Try to think about this rationally. I'm a Librason Pisces moon. Being cancelled is hell for me. You know, I want to be liked by everyone. And I'm starting to think I might be in the wrong career for that. In a way, leftist Twitter finally accomplished would forechan Nazis, stalkers, and turfs have been trying and failing to do to me for years. They've made Twitter into a platform so hostile to my existence that I've decided to leave it forever. And they demoralized me to the point I could barely get out of bed for a month. And I know that sounds really melodramatic, but I'm just trying to be honest with you about what a melodramatic person I am. I find I have trouble convincing people of the severity of the pain that being cancelled causes, because I think it's just hard to imagine if you haven't been through it yourself. And I don't know a more succinct way to convey it to you than by telling you that in the last few years I've been harassed by Nazis, I've been harassed by turfs, I've been stalked, I've been doxed, I've been threatened, I've been sexually assaulted, and the pain of being cancelled, of being totally trashed by other trans people online for years has been more difficult for me to cope with than all the rest of it combined. Joe Freeman actually describes how I feel better than I think I can describe it myself. I was one of the first in the country, perhaps the first in Chicago, to have my character, my commitment, and my very self-attack in such a way by movement women that it left me torn in little pieces and unable to function. It took me years to recover, and even today the wounds have not entirely healed. This attack is accomplished by making you feel that your very existence is an chemical to the movement, and that nothing can change this short of ceasing to exist. These feelings are reinforced when you are isolated from your friends, as they become convinced that their association with you is similarly inimical to the movement and to themselves. Any support of you will change them, eventually all your colleagues join in in a chorus of condemnation which cannot be silenced, and you are reduced to a mere parody of your previous self. Yeah, that just about sums it up. Now as it happens, I am going to survive this because I have very deliberately built a support network that will be there for me regardless of what online trans communities say. And I have very deliberately done that because early in my transition back in 2017, I relied very heavily on the online leftist trans community for all kinds of emotional support. You know, when you are early in transition, I mean it just sucks. You feel like the whole world is against you. And I talked about this a little bit in my last video, feeling like a freak show walking down the street. And even if you are lucky enough to have a supportive family, it is usually still going to take them a while to come around. At first they don't get it. They say things to you like, aren't you worried you will regret this? And like they struggle with your name and pronouns, which is understandable, but at the same time it makes you feel like you're not being seen for who you are. So you need a kind of second family that understands how you're feeling and acts happy about your transition and validates your gender. And for the first couple months of my transition, I found that in this world of online transgender leftism. Well that didn't last long because well I was what two months into my transition when first I did an interview with the journalist Jesse Singles and then I agreed to do a debate with Theran and Vanessa. So that's a long story, but in short, I associated with a string of people that trans Twitter considers the enemy. And trans Twitter tore me apart over this and it completely broke my heart because I was really leaning on basically emotional support from strangers online. Which seems really stupid in retrospect. And after they turned against me, I decided one that I was never going to rely on this group of people again. And two, that I was going to have to find acceptance elsewhere. And in retrospect, I think this actually made it been good for me in a roundabout way because I was kicked out of the safe space and I dropped that mentality. And so basically I was thrown into the deep end of reality and forced to sink or swim. And I don't know if my transition or my channel would be where they are today if I hadn't been for that trial by fire. Are we swimming through fire or are we mixing metaphors? The point is I'm more armored against cancelling than I was two years ago. And the reason why is I have acquired a certain level of privilege and security and independence from any one community. So that if one community cancels me, I still have somewhere else to go. You know, the people who are most vulnerable to cancel culture are not white guy comedians. They're not James Charles. They're not me. They are marginalized people who feel like they have nowhere else to go when they're rejected by their community. That means struggling trans people with a few hundred Twitter followers. It means a lot of sex workers. It means people who totally rely on activists circles for emotional and material support. I'll quote Joe Freeman one more time. I had survived my youth because I had never given anyone or any group the right to judge me. That right I had reserved to myself. But the movement seduced me by its sweet promise of sisterhood. It claimed to provide a haven from the ravages of a sexist society a place where one would be understood. It was my very need for feminism and feminists that made me vulnerable. I gave the movement the right to judge me because I trusted it and when it judged me worthless, I accepted that judgment. There's a really irritating point that people on the left like to make that goes. Well, canceling doesn't really end anyone's career. Canceled people usually get a new job or keep their platform. So I guess it's not really that bad, huh? I think people say this because they're trying to mitigate any sense of guilt they might feel about how they're treating people. Because it's a really stupid argument. There's lots of things that don't end your life they're still terrible. But also, there's cases where canceling has ended someone's life. On December 5th, 2017, a porn star named August Ames killed herself by hanging in a public park after being canceled on Twitter over a homophobic tweet. On December 3rd, she tweeted, Whichever lady performer is replacing me tomorrow for Erotica X News, you're shooting with a guy who's shot gay porn just to let you know. B.S. is all I can say shrug. Do agents really not care about who they're representing? L.A. direct. I do my homework for my body. So I've never worked in porn, so I can't really tell you what the norms are around women working with men who have done gay porn. But the tweet certainly sounds homophobic to me, and that seems to be the consensus of other industry people on Twitter. So Twitter did its thing. People in August's community called her a homophobic and lashed out at her. And as always happens, plenty of passers-by jumped into throw tomatoes at the woman in the stocks. Over the next few days, August tweeted several more times, going through the usual stages that you go through when you're being canceled. First, she defended herself. She claimed most other women in the industry feel the same as her. Then she said she's bisexual, and therefore she couldn't be homophobic. Then she said, Fine, August will be fake and not have opinions then. Then she started bemoaning how mean Twitter is. And she got really defensive about her right to choose who she has sex with. And she lashed out at the people attacking her. And then, in her final tweet, she just said, fuck y'all. And went to the park that night and killed herself. This is all so familiar to me. I feel like I'm able to relive with her each stage of this emotional process. There's that first moment when you realize the outrage is beginning and you get that thinking feeling in your stomach. And then the anger, feeling misunderstood, and then the bargaining, the fear, and finally the shame and the despair. And here's the thing, I totally agree with her critics that her tweet was bad. Of course she has the right to say no for any reason, but she publicly expressed this in a homophobic way. But she was still a person who deserves to live. And I think there's gotta be a better way to deal with these situations than just trashing someone until they kill themselves. And I know it's never as simple as Twitter made her kill herself. There's always other things going on in the background. But the point I'm making is canceling is more dangerous to marginalize people. Because marginalize people generally have more things going on in the background. John Rotson did an investigative podcast about her death. And it goes into how she was sexually abused as a child, abandoned by her father. She was living with a boyfriend. She was kind of emotionally detached from. And if he weeks earlier, she'd filmed a scene with a guy who was unnecessarily rough and mean. And it was mistreated her. And she was kind of traumatized by that. And so she was kind of on edge and really defensive about who she worked with when she was tweeting. Then the backlash happened. And since she had no other support, no work. She probably felt like the only community she had turned against her. And that's a really painful feeling. She must have felt so despised. Which is how I felt for the last two months. I feel despised and burdensome. And I can imagine how a person who feels that way could have an impulsive couple hours where they think their best option is suicide. I mean, I can more than imagine it because I've been there myself. And I'm still here because at those moments, I've been with good friends who took care of me. And by friends, I do mean Xanax. But I've also survived because there's a lot of people on the internet who'd be very entertained if I killed myself. And I simply refused to give them the satisfaction. Donobitch. I'm just going to live as long as I'm a small blood of sheer spite. I mean, who needs a guardian angel when you can make a thorough Christmas after Christmas on the fumes of total contempt? What I'm really trying to say is Merry Christmas, you goddamn assholes. Oh, holy night. The stars are bright, the shine. Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. To get my lesbian pliers out again. Have a super fucking happy New Year's Eve. How am I going to get this bathtub out of my apartment? Anyone in Baltimore want a bathtub? Leave a comment if you want a bathtub. Alright, I need to take a deep breath, cause let's be honest. I'm about one crack away from attacking my own Twitter followers with an umbrella. I have about one breakdown away from going on a rampage and making a suit out of women's skin. I'm just kidding, I would never do that. They want a bad skin day, I've given it serious consideration. Oh, I'll be fine. I've got to sober up anyway, cause I'm having more plastic surgery in a couple days. And plastic surgery. That's about the only thing holding me together at this point. Oh, what? YouTube, this is a healthy profession. This is great. Anyone want my job? Step right up. All you have to do is make informative and entertaining videos about extremely controversial topics. Well, of course, representing the full range of experiences in the LGBTQIAA Plus Spectrum and being perfectly woke and irreverently funny. Well, go on. I'm waiting to be entertained. Feed me, mother. Oh, don't mind me. I'll just sit back and pour another glass of wine. Oh, and I will, of course, be obsessively scrutinizing every word you say for any hint of moral transgression as well as critiquing your look-a-third rate cross-treasure. Zero out of ten. Get off my stage. He's like, that's what you feel that everywhere. That's good. I do still want to talk about why people cancel and the effect that it's having, but it looks like there's going to have to be a part two Gorge because I have hit my limit. So why don't we all cut our losses and try again in 2020, hmm? I realize that people on Twitter aren't actually going to watch this video. They're just going to make fun of the title and how long it is. Which, fair enough, but they're the ones whose accusations against me are so numerous and convoluted they require a feature length film to respond to. But yeah, they're going to see the title and they're going to transcribe quotes out of context and they're going to say I'm a fascist. I'm a turf. I'm truce gum. I'm the new Blair White. I'm the new Lacey Green. I'm a cis bootlicker. I'm an enlightened centrist. I'm a shit-lib. I'm alright. I'm a heartless grifter, making millions of dollars over the bodies of dead trans women. Mask off. Yikes. This ain't it, chief. Friendly reminder that this isn't a good look. Maybe don't be a cis bootlicker. Disappointing. But they're saying all those things already. So I'm inoculated. See, their mistake was completely breaking my spirit. They should have left a little piece intact. But it's good. It's good. It's good. Because basically my survival from here on out hinges on my ability to not care at all what people say about me online. So... Here's to not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I'm not giving a fuck. I see the deer every night. This is almost a normal Desmond cosplay, which is good because I'm not gonna age greasely. And it's about to get into character now. YouTube stars never die.