Hi boys, it's me again, just your average girl. Look, I may be a biological female, but I do hope that just for this video, we're able to converse as man. I want you to think back to 2016, which I know in internet years is like halfway between now and the decline of Rome. Do you like history boys? How did Rome fall again? Was it the gaze? Tell me all about it. Back in 2016, the big internet culture award was between feminists on one side and men's rights activists on the other. Whatever happened to that, these days it says, that a meme is, I don't know, a rhombé. I did want to do the fedora though. Every YouTuber who's ever covered the men's rights movement has done the fedora and I wanted to put my own little twist on it. My wardrobe notes to this video say, MRI femme fetao and fedora would make it fashion. School shooter realness. I feel like I'm also serving a little red-pilled Carmen San Diego. In this video, I want to ask, in all seriousness, what are we going to do about men? Because no offense, but as a group, you guys kind of seem like you're not doing okay. Could a group of people who are purchasing uncooked alpha yogurt possibly be subsisting in a state of psychological balance? Fellas. Are regular bowel movements gay? I guess, yeah, kind of. You don't see a whole lot of psyllium husk and heterosexual medicine cabinets. I'm losing my target audience here. Listen, my dudes, let's just say, I'm kind of worried about you guys. I'm not saying I'm any better. To be clear, I'm not okay either. Just like 15 jars of urine in my refrigerator right now. Yeah, that's right. Women P2, okay. Get over it. I'm so sorry if this offends your male notions of feminine delixi, but I for one will not be shamed by your patriarchal bullshit. You boys, you're very rational, aren't you? Ugh. As opposed I was too. I admit that these days rationality, it's something I struggle with, but both as a biological female and as a Pisces moon. But when I decided I wanted to make a video for a man, contrappin' I started brushing up on my reasoning skills because I want to be so fucking rational for you. For fair for this video, I read Newton's Principia Mathematica, Vickensstein's Tractotis Logico-Philosovicus, and of course, the philosophical classic, The Rational Male, by Roryo Kaliante. So my mind is well lubricated and I'm ready. For what I have no doubt will be a penetrating intellectual interchange. Look, I want to play by your rules, okay? So there will be no emotions in this video. I will present my arguments in strict, logical form, relying only on facts, reason, evidence, and deductive proof. Actually, you know what? Fuck that. Listen to house music and do sex drugs. I'm pandering to the male gaze. Oh, and the male straights. God, I love attention. Hey, gorge. Hey, gorge. Hey, gorge. Okay. I'm ready. Let's crack open a cold one, boys. My hands are too pretty to open the can. I need a man to do it for me. Help! Fuck it. Okay, that's super funny, but he gorge. He gorge. You're there any women still watching this video? I'm really sorry about all this. Unless you're into that sort of thing, in which case, how for dare? I'm a good presbyterian. I do mean pansexual. Hey, how are you? Look, the video is about men, so I'm trying to be attractive to men. Am I doing this right? Is this what men like? Drop. Drop. It is a risky look for a girl like me. When you do a lingerie look, you know you're going to wind up somewhere on the Franken Ferber Violet Chuchki, Dita Von Tees, Spectrum. Oh, but you don't know where exactly. And that is a dangerous game, ladies. I have to say, though, I actually am feeling pretty fucking empowered right now. But that could be because of the drugs. Look, gentlemen, let's be rational, and we're fooling around, okay? Part one. A way rational. Axiom 1. America's next top victim. I think there is some truth to the idea that we live in a victimhood culture. And I'm not just talking about campus SJWs with their microaggressions. No bitch, this goes all the way to the top. We have quite people complaining about reverse racism. We have the literal 1% complaining about anti-breach prejudice. That must be super fucking hard for you. We have the heterosexual agenda organizing straight pride for AIDS, you know, plotting their sexuality on the faces of children who are trying to raise a family and protesting in this street like a bunch of f***ing. And so of course, because there was women's rights, there has to be men's rights too. I've been hearing about men's rights for my whole adult life, and I've always been very skeptical. Because in my experience, online men's rights activism and practice always looks like this. Women try to do a good thing to solve a real problem, and then a man shows up to say, well what about man? Man also get harassed. Why aren't you talking about man? And does this man actually involved in activism to stop harassment against men? Of course he's f***ing not. He doesn't give a shit. He's a troll. His contribution to the conversation begins and ends with what about man? What about them honey? For this video, I decided to actually do some research for once, and the first thing I did was read the foundational text of the modern men's rights movement, which is the myth of male power by Warren Farrell. Actually I listened to the audiobook, because let's be honest, reading is hard. But as I was listening, I admit I thought it made more sense than I was expecting it to. Basically, Farrell says that second wave feminists rightly fought against the traditional gender role that can find women to domestic servitude. But he argues that the feminist idea that men have all the power in society is actually an illusion, because the traditional gender role for men is just as oppressive. He introduces the idea of male disposability, basically the idea that society values female lives more than male lives, which are seen as expendable in the service of protecting and providing for women and children. And he points to statistics showing that men make up the majority of military casualties work for fatalities, murder victims, suicides, and so on. So we're supposed to conclude that even though at first it looks like men have more power than women, in fact the queens have a certain kind of privilege in being protected and provided for by the expendable male worker bees. And I guess that kind of makes sense. I feel like I can at least empathize with the point of view, what I'm saying is I took the red pill and I rubbed it on my claaaaaa, but some initial objections come to mind. Like haven't men been almost all of the king's presidents and CEOs for millennia? Didn't men make up all these rules in the first place? I don't know boys, still seems kind of patriarchal to me but maybe you'll say that it's only at the top of society that men have more power than women. Maybe the average man is also oppressed by the system that feminists call patriarchy. If that's what you're saying, I think I basically agree with that. See what you have to understand about me is I am such a fucking Libra. Whenever there's a conflict my gut reaction is to be like, well maybe everybody's right and maybe there's good points on both sides and we should all just listen to each other and rub each other's claaaaaa, sped me out. My Scorpio rising persona will not allow that. Oh, there will be a champion. There will be blood. So, judges, how do we decide which gender is America's next top victim? I mean, it's not like you can just change genders and see how the other half lives. Or can you? Proposition 2. Diary of an X-man. Dear diary, with every false smile I can seal that on the inside I'm drowning in darkness. Come on! Get out of my room! You're ruining my life! I have never ever talked about this on my channel before so this is like a super fucking vulnerable moment for me but I was born a boy. Well, was I ever really a boy? It's hard to say. Dear diary, growing up I always knew that I was different from other kids, especially other boys. And it took me so long to pinpoint what it was but there was this moment. I must have been what? Seven and eight years old and I was playing in my parents' room all by myself and I saw this pair of my mom's shoes lying on the floor. And I don't know what it was. It was like this magnetism that drew me to them and I put my little feet in them and walked in front of the mirror and I didn't really have the words yet to describe how I felt but basically in that moment I sensed that God had made a mistake and I was destined to be a cross-tracer. That is super fucking cow-gods. Anyway, then in my 20s my life completely fell apart and I became a woman, hey how are you? I became one of the dolls. My plastic surgeon is an artist. Look boys, the point I'm trying to make here is I used to live your lifestyle. I know what people like you get up to and I think it's disgusting. I got to say though, since I transitioned, my life has been super fucking great. Like way better. Yeah, of course a lot of that is not because women have it better than men but because hey Gorge, I am literally transgendered. So before I transitioned I was dying inside, you know? I was in the wrong body and now it's like I finally have the body I was meant to die inside of. But it's not just that. I do think that in some ways since I started presenting as a woman people actually do treat me better. I mean they take my opinions less seriously sure but that's probably for the bad. Now before using my personal experience as any kind of evidence, I guess I should say a couple caveats. Caveat one is that most pre-transition trans women are not like other boys and most of us were not living the business class male experience by any means. You know, it's a lot of drunk melancholic, tormented sissy's, secretive transvestites, poets, you know, that sort of thing. Caveat two is that my trans experience is not the trans experience and I do have a lot of other privileges that made things go super fucking well for me. Hey, how are you? Don't you just love it when someone checks their privilege in a way that's actually just bragging? You know, it's super important for me to acknowledge that I've been so successful and I've come so far in part because I'm white and I'm skinny and I'm young and I'm blonde and I'm rich and I pass and I'm educated and I'm popular and my plastic surgeon and artist and my boyfriend is really rich and hot and I come from a pure area in bloodline and part of what makes me so enlightened and so compassionate is that I'm able to recognize these privileges that I have that just might not be available to people who are less fortunate. From the bottom of my mother fucking and my father fucking heart, there must be super fucking heart for you. I can't even imagine what I was saying is there are ways that people treat me better now that I'm presenting as a woman. People smile at me more, I feel more taken care of. Men do things for me. Now a lot of women don't like men doing things for them. I'm holding doors, helping with luggage because they feel that it's infantilizing or condescending. But not me. I love it. Both because I love attention and because I'm a recumpent queen who's too much of a delicate flower to live to finger. I do this thing on airplanes where when it's time for me to put my carry on luggage in the overhead bin, I pretend that my bag is too heavy for me to lift and then some man will usually get up and do it for me even though I'm taller than most men. It makes me happy. Another good thing about becoming a woman is I integrated into female social groups and I found that they provide a kind of communal support and overt affection that male social groups generally just don't. I find that female social styles suits me better than the male one, which tends to be more atomized, more individualist, where affection is always concealed behind this semi-joke front of competition. Like think about the way boys talk to each other when they play video games. A third improvement for me has to do with the way men and women are treated in public space. When you present female in public, you're more likely to be treated as a spectacle to be commented upon. So usually men will just blurt out their opinions about you, sometimes complimentary, sometimes insulting, sometimes just fucking weird. Whereas when you present male in public, you're more likely to be treated either as invisible or as dangerous. Now feminist have traditionally interpreted these differences as men asserting dominance over women in public space and they've criticized cat calling as being objectifying, degrading, and misogynistic and it certainly can be all of those things. There's different kinds of cat calling and I have different feelings about them. If I'm walking with another woman and a man says, ladies you look beautiful tonight, I don't know, I like that. I think that's nice. It makes me feel seen, it makes me feel admired, it boosts my confidence. Whereas if I'm walking alone and a drunk starts following me down the street singing, have you seen a polythene pebb, she's so good looking what she looks like a man. That, I am less enthusiastic about, I mean not that that's ever happened, I'm completely fucking unclocable, hey how are you? No one knows what it's like to be a sad tree. I definitely get where feminists are coming from because Stryhara's misogs. I'm a lot more afraid walking alone at night than I used to be and there's a lot more places I just won't go by myself. But on the other hand, I do know and enjoy being able to walk down the street at night without other people acting afraid of me. I think a lot of feminists have failed to imagine the ways that being treated as invisible or dangerous can also kind of suck. In my video on InSells I talked about male invisibility on dating apps and how getting no attention at all can actually be emotionally worse than getting a lot of shitty attention. And when it comes to being treated as dangerous, when I was living as a man, sometimes if I was walking at night, a woman on the same block as me would change sides of the street. And I totally get why men do scary shit sometimes and it's better to be safe. But it's still stung a little bit to be treated as dangerous by default. I think it can actually be harmful, which becomes clearer if we add race into the equation. There's ways that white women's fear can actually be dangerous in particular to black men. I had an experience with this recently when I was filming my video The Apocalypse and I'd rented a room in a hotel casino. Her own midnight I was carrying some camera equipment up to my room and I got into the elevator with a group of people from the casino floor. A couple floors up, everyone got out of the elevator except for me and a single black man. Well, I mean he was alone. I don't know if he was single. That's not part of the story. And as soon as the door closed, he started literally whistling, ro, ro, ro, your boat. The official melody of performative innocence. And I realized, oh shit, he is afraid that I'm afraid. And I found that just excruciating. I was like, oh god. How do other white women behave in elevators? Do they like clutch their purses? Ugh, that's so faggy embarrassing. Nothing like that had ever happened to me when I was living as a man. It's not a thing between black men and white men. It's a thing between black men and white women. So that dynamic was there, not just because I'm white in his black, but because I'm a woman in his man. And I thought of that incident again when I was listening to the myth of male power. And Ferrell says, men's greatest weakness is their facade of strength. And women's greatest strength is their facade of weakness. I think there is some truth to the idea that women's perceived vulnerability can make them powerful. And men's perceived power can make them vulnerable. Now, I hope you're taking all this with a grain of salt because these are just some little observations I've made based on a handful of anecdotes. And as rational males, it's important that we consider the facts, the stats, and the figures. Did you know that 46% of men are at least 2.8 times different than 73% of women? Look it up. I haven't. Because my super fucking Libra opinion is that there's upsides and downsides to male and female experience. I don't actually think there's a single definite answer to the vague and useless question, which gender has it worse. I consider myself a feminist because I support reproductive rights and I oppose workplace misogyny. And I generally agree with a lot of the activism that happens under the heading of feminism. But I also think a lot of men are just having a super fucking difficult time right now and that must be super fucking hard for them, ain't I? And I don't think feminism is tough and obligation to care about male acts, but I care about you, boys. And such a cool girl, I think the entire mid-Atlantic region is about to freeze over. No, I'm just a super fucking empathetic Pisces moon and I really try to understand other people's pain because I just find it really, really funny. I'm also really, really sobering up here. The drugs have worn off and I'm suddenly feeling very naked. Like it's just now apparent to me that this is a highly inappropriate outfit for this occasion. So I'm going to go put on a robe and I'll meet you back for the next section. Postulate three, the man question. Hi boys, etc, etc. Hey, how are you? For the last three years on this channel, I have been your a virgin leading you through gender howl. You know, I think I've got artists gender dysphoria in cells radical feminists non-binary genders mens rights activists it seems like everybody's having gender trouble. So what do we make of that? Well, Gorge, a very, very rational male philosopher named Hagel once said that the unfolding of history is a basically rational process Gorge. That means that at any time in history society is based on certain principles like, um, men are created equal as long as there's superfucking rich in white. And there's always contradictions within those principles, which creates tension, and eventually leads to a rupture, like a revolution, where society has to be reorganized according to new principles. At least I think he was saying something like that. It's pretty hard to make anything out through the fog of his unreadable, hyper-abstract man-job-ring. God, I can't stand that shit. Or any of the other musicating volicils of the male philosophical tradition. My point is, I think our society has reached a place where gender, as we know it, just isn't working anymore. Now, no one seems to agree why it isn't working or how to fix it, but we do all agree that it's broken. We have mainstream feminists saying we need to continue advancing the rights of women. We have conservatives saying we need to restore the gender roles of the 1950s. We have an increasing number of people not identifying as men or women. We have TERFs who think that the trans-genders are the single greatest threat to civilization, hey, or yo. And we have men's rights activists saying we need a male equivalent to feminism to liberate men from their oppressive gender role. Now, I want to focus on that last one because in principle, I agree. I've spent a lot of the last three years covering the manosphere. I know such a feminine topic loves that for me. And from all the time I've tortured myself, waiting for these communities of in-sales, pickup artists, men's rights activists, intellectual dark web fanboys in all right races, I've noticed that they all have one thing in common, which is that they all recruit from the same massive pool of sad young man. We all know the architect. He is trouble relating to women. He is an oh strong friendship group. He's not excited about any long-term goals and he fills the void with video games and porn. And just to clarify, I'm not trying to take away your video games and porn. I'm not telling you what to do with your penis. You can rub one out to this video for all I care. Just don't pull a game record on me, okay? I live in fear. Look, I like to believe that until the red pillars inject their poison, most of these boys are not bad people. I think all of this originates in a genuine crisis of male identity. And I think it's happened in something like the way men's rights activists describe. The sacrificial role of men as warriors is no longer widely glorified or necessary. The traditional protector provider role of men is being replaced by a more equal and undefined gender dynamic. And college professors and activists are telling men that most of our culture's aspirational representations of manhood are toxic and bad. But without an attractive replacement vision of aspirational manhood, average young men can only envision their future as what? The beta, the cock, the new male. And in a post-left tube internet, we're so used to laughing at this vocabulary. And to be fair, it is very funny. But we forgot, especially us grills, that for a lot of men, these words actually do tap into a deep existential angst. And a lot of leftists go, well, how can men be so angsty? Especially white men, they're so privileged. But existential angst is often a disease of privilege. If you're actually being oppressed, you have a struggle, you have something to fight for, and therefore a purpose. But for a lot of men, their lack of purpose puts them in search of a struggle. And that, along with the loneliness and the lack of a positive identity, is what makes men vulnerable to recruitment by the manosphere groups and by the alt-right. And even worse, it seems to be a motivating factor for the small but growing number of young men who decide to pick up a gun and open fire in a shopping center. There were two mass shootings during the weekend I was writing this video, resulting in 31 deaths. Both shooters were young white men, and one of them posted about the shooting on an alt-right image board. Now, we don't pretend to fully understand the motives of mass shooters, but I don't think it's a coincidence that basically all of them are men. One possible interpretation of the mass shooting epidemic is that these killers are trying to resurrect some horrible parody of ancient masculine glory and therefore to be seen and recognized as men. By unleashing Homeric violence in a fucking Walmart, and of course there's also the racism of the alt-right killers and the wounded sexual entitlement of the in-cell killers. But that racism and that sexual entitlement are learned, and men in the throes of a masculinity crisis are more receptive to learning it. So you can try to take down their forums and ban their accounts and de-plat from their events. But as long as this male identity crisis goes on, I don't see any end to these problems. Theorem 4. What do? There is this media narrative that has emerged around me and around this channel, and by the way, the fact that there's any kind of media narrative about this channel is super fucking coconuts. Because let's be real gorge, I just wanted to foremoke on my face and talk about the mouth feel, but there's this media narrative that my role in the discourse is dera-ticalizing young old right man. And it's true that if you read the leftist youtube fan subreddits, I used to be alt-right posts are so common they're considered cliche, and some of them cite me as an influence in changing their politics, which I love for them and I'm superfying happy about it, but it's also a lot of responsibility. They're my boys, and I worry about my boys, because in reality it's not like they go from far right extremist to complacent centrist. No, most of them go far left, a lot of them become communist or anarchists. So I watch them go from far to my right to significantly to my left. It's not really dera-ticalizing so much as re-radicalizing, and I think it's definitely an improvement, but I still worry it's not gonna be enough. I worry about my boys, because I don't think that the left yet has a final solution to the man question. Oh no, that was worded poorly. You know, there's kind of two options the left has for disillusioned men. The first is the Marxist promise of economic revolution. We say, well, actually yes, you are oppressed, but you're oppressed because of your class, not your gender. So just join the revolution, it's gonna be super fucking crazy. We're gonna overthrow the bourgeoisie, meow, meow, smash, no voting, and then things will be better for you. Now, I think that has a couple limitations. One is that I look at the far left, and I see a bunch of people who spend all their time accusing each other of abusing moderate or privileges and closed Facebook groups, and I'm concerned that might not succeed at ending capitalism, meow, meow. Like definitely vote for Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren or whoever, but if you're investing all of your hopes in a capital R revolution, I worry that can become like waiting for good doe or waiting for the rapture. So we do need political change, but I feel like I'm failing my boys if I'm somehow giving them the idea that revolution is their only hope. Because here's the other thing, even if we did succeed ending capitalism, there would still be gender, and my boys would still need some model of what it is to lead a good life as a man. Now, the other option the left has for disillusioned men is the feminist tranquilizer. We say, look, toxic masculinity is the reason you don't have room to express your feelings, and it's the reason you feel lonely and inadequate. So while feminism tells women, you hate your body and you're constantly doubting yourself because society did this to you and needs to change, we kind of just tell men, you're lonely and suicidal because you're toxic. Stop it. We tell them they're broken without really telling them how to fix themselves. I think what we need is a new positive ideal of manhood, which I don't think is something that women can create for men, even if they wanted to. And honestly, the best way for that to happen may actually be some kind of men's movement. But on the left, the whole idea of a men's movement is basically taboo, because the men's movement we all know is basically just a backlash to feminism. And at worst, it's just straight up misogyny. And look boys, I understand that being lectured about man spreading for most of 2015 was supervoking our view and you're still mad about it, but posting endless outrage porn about false rape accusations and paternity fraud isn't actually going to make life any better for you. Because yes, those things are horrible when they happen, but they're not systemic issues that affect most men. I think it would actually improve life for most men is a positive ideal of 21st century manhood, but that's not something I can give to you because in case you had noticed, I'm literally a fucking woman. I can't mom you through this one boys, you're on your own, you have to help each other. So find each other in the comments section, meet up on Reddit, make friends, clean your room, leave the house, fuck each other, I don't know, it's worth a try. And failing that, you could always throw in the towel and become a woman. Work for me. I'm just trying to give like a lady energy. Yeah, it is, it's very, it is English, it's very drawn McLean, very quentin crisp, very, I was too hot. It's supervoking naked right now, that's crazy. That's supervoking crazy. According to traditional gender roles, men are useful for their labor and women are useful for their wills. Well, I'm a woman without a womb, so I guess I'm useless, but I'm beautifully useless. Ugh, I'm a work of art. The problem with our society is we've turned men into women. It's disgusting. As an ally to men, it's not my place to speak for them or speak over them, but I just want to use my platform to uplift some male voices who might not have as many subscribers as me. I'm not hypergamous, I don't need a rich husband. If I make a share, I don't need a rich man. I am a rich man. It's not even really much of an insult being called a delusional man. Many great folks have been written by delusional men. It's so bad. I'm bad. I'm really bad. Okay.