The next stop on my road trip was through the uncanny valley and out the other side. Metaphorically, anyway, literally, I was going to Yorkshire. It's the largest historic county in England, traditionally divided into three ridings. Partly because of that and partly because I spent a good few years in my youth there and feel quite a bit of loyalty to it. Yorkshire is getting three episodes on the road trip, one for each riding. And we start in the west. I parked up at the collegiate campus of Sheffield Hallam University, home to the medical and health care students, and to a very strange hospital ward. This is NHS signage. Yeah, it is actually. It's as close to the NHS spec that we physically could get. Wow. You'll see as we walk on the ward how close we are. Oh, this is a hospital. Yes. Every bit of my brain just went, this is a hospital. It even smells like a hospital which is really weird. Right. That is Kay. She's a senior adult nursing lecturer at the university and she showed me around their simulated hospital ward for the use for teaching. I need to give you a bit of a heads up here. This is the less intense version of the video, which means a few things in the later parts are going to be blurred and desaturated. We're going to talk about life changing injuries, surgeries, reproductive organs, and there's going to be a lot of blurred goo, but that's the limits of what YouTube's policies will allow. So the more intense version is available on Nebula. Anyway, we start the tour with one of the more mundane parts of the hospital ward, the toilets. My brain has just gone, this is a hospital. Like we walked through that door and I'm no longer on a university campus. So we use this for stuff with physios, with student nurses, anything where we're moving patients around. Yeah. Everything works. The emergency cord works a little too well, so it's absolutely to secure a team. So they actually think it's an emergency, so we have to be mindful of that. We even have a sluce. Oh, a hospital sluce is for safety disposal of bodily fluids, waste and associated items and theirs works. They have almost everything they need to run an actual hospital ward, despite the fact they don't have any actual patients. Obviously, fake urine and physios is used. Of course it is. So we need somewhere to dispose of things. Okay, so obvious question, do you buy that from a supplier? Is there someone who... We have a Sophie who makes all sorts of people. Okay, I should go to Dr Sophie. Sophie is a technical specialist on the clinical simulation team and she has particular skills in moulage, which is the art of creating realistic simulated injuries and illnesses. We'll see those in a moment, but I should make it clear. You do a lot else besides. Yeah, which we can show. Yeah, as you look around, you can tell the... Oh, it's an actual ward with patients. With patients? Oh, yes, okay. I'm slightly weirded out by the people in the beds, but other than that, this is a perfect simulation of a hospital. Can we have a look around? Yes, so we're going to go this way first. All right, this way first. You plan this all out, thank you. Because I want you to meet the first sim. Oh! So this is Gwen. I nearly said hi to Gwen. So we love Gwen. Okay. I think Gwen is one of the most pampered mannequins you will ever meet in your life. She's got a bean bag, she's got some toys. She's even got a health passport, which is just on there. Oh, yeah. So this is something that she will take into hospital with us. It's how to properly care for her and things like that. So we try to make it as real as possible. She has a little ragging here that's stuck to enjoy around herself. Gwen is actually based off of a real person as well. Incredibly brave little girl that's just gone through and had these scanners and things like that. For life, past, touch of the old to make. So why? I... My hesitation is not because of the uncanny valley. I did expect this to be a story about the uncanny valley where things like mannequins that aren't quite human enough freak out the brain. But no, I'm stuttering and panicking because on some level, my brain has accepted this mannequin as human. Interlachially, I know this is a lump of plastic, but the simulation is so good. That looks like a sleeping kid to me. Oh, that is... That feels like I'm holding a hand, a slightly cold hand perhaps, but that's within... That's just someone who needs the heating turned up slightly. That's incredible. I feel uncomfortable doing that, not because it's a mannequin, but because my brain is going, that's a human that I'm disturbing. Yeah. It's really cool. If you notice as well, Gwen's eyebrow hairs... Just got eyelashes. And all individually done. It's very cool. I feel invasive with this camera. I know it's a mannequin. I keep... That's... Every detail. Sometimes with Damian Sindre, what she's got is a difficult area as well. So we can teach people how to manage a difficult area. So it's not just on the outside, it's actually on the inside. If you're trying to intubate or... Because this is based on an actual little girl. So she actually has the scars... That is... Oh, it's in this side. Yeah, the little girl had an operation and she's got the scars. This, again, this feels... Envasive. I did a bit of research on the Gwen mannequin afterwards and turns out the original Gwen has an acting and casting agent. She was paid for her work, she and her family understood everything that was going on. People with Damian Sindre tend to have worse health outcomes. So training students on a mannequin like that is going to be helpful. Not every patient can say yes and no. Not every patient will be perceived to be able to understand things. So how you communicate is a huge thing. And the fact that Gwen doesn't speak makes it... I was able to do those things with her. How long does it take the students to kind of... get acclimatised to this? Some students love it, some students are completely freaked out by it. We do like a briefing. So if you're doing a briefing a lot, explaining about each of the mannequins. Okay, so there are other mannequins here. Yes, lots and lots of different ones. So I'm going to let Sophie take over on these ones. Because I'm an adult nurse. Do not deal with children. Okay. So we've kind of got a bit of a variety out here. It's one of my reaction to kids as well. So we've got a variety of ages from baby or toddler. I think he's more toddler-sized. So again, we've got some sort of lifewikes. Some of the kind of like what we say is ILS mannequins. ILS? So it's a immediate life spot. Right. So it's how to kind of deal with an emergency situation. So things like CPR and stuff. So that's kind of what we've got out at the moment. I do want to show you another one. I just want to talk over here. Did you say anything about Gwen? However, we do have little Isaiah. Sophie traded me my camera for the baby mannequin. I mean, it's clear from the way I'm handling the mannequin. But this is not something I'm comfortable with. I mean, you tend to pass this around to students. So I'm terrible for doing this. I want to take baby off. You can see it looks. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I'm much much much nice with this camera is great. So what I tend to do with a particular this baby is randomly pass it to a student when they're on the ward because the moment you are a health care professional, doesn't matter what level you are, a child will be handed to you. Doesn't matter if you're a parent at some point. A radiotherapy and oncologist, a nurse, even if you are not looking after that child, a child will be handed to you. So I kind of do that to our students, which is a tiny bit mean, but it's very nice. You saw my reaction. I just have a freezer. No one has taught me how to do this. I'm terrible with children. But I know how to hold a baby just because I hand it out self frequently. He freaks me out because I don't do children. But it works really well as a teaching aid for students. Some of our students have got really attached to them. They do. Like, where's the baby? We need to put the baby down. And I'm like, it is a mannequin. But there we go. But he because he's a lifelike doesn't tend to do any screaming or crying, which is really handy. That's not lifelike experience. I thought we do have ones that are a little more loud. Yes. OK. So now, let's leave the children's side of the ward behind. Things are going to get a little bit more intense. No goo to be seen yet. But we are going to dive a bit further into the Uncanny Valley. My brain just went people. My brain completely out of the corner of my eye. So people in the hospital beds. Yep. So this is, I call her Babs. She's amazing. We've got a few. Her hair, I haven't wear. Yeah, so we've currently got two. She's one of our newer mannequins. So she's a bariatric mannequin. Yeah. The UK's National Health Service defines bariatric patients in a few different ways, depending on context. But generally, that's anyone who's white or physical size means they're going to have limitations in their healthcare. For someone of average height, that's around 160 kilos or to use the British measurement 25 stone. I don't want to derode your idea. And I would not be able to show that anyway. No, it's fine. But realistic to touch and things like that, if you think from around. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I don't know what I'm comparing, but okay. She's supposed to represent 26 stone, isn't it? She's round about, yeah. That's 26 stone. So she doesn't weigh that, but the body shape. Because you need to be able to pick up and lift the mannequin and move to a different bed. Yeah. But the students... If, for example, they would learn something like personal care. Right. So with someone like Babs, because she's a bariatric patient, there's more creases, there's more folds, there's more opportunities for infection. So if we're doing a bed bath in scenario, they would have to wash every part of her. And so in that case, it's not the right weight, but every other detail is that. Is the exact same. And we do mean every detail. So from a biological point of view, everything you would expect from a bariatric patient. The other thing that Babs has got, which she said loves, and she does make it better, is she has a diabetic towel. Oh, yeah. That is... Because of course the mannequins have to have things beyond what they're in hospital for. Because every patient is complex. Every patient has more than one thing, even if that thing's minor. Every patient that comes into a hospital environment doesn't come in with one thing. They come with so many different things. So Babs might have come in with breathing difficulties. She might have something like COVID, but she's got diabetic foot also that she didn't realise, because one of the things we've diabetes is neuropathy. So they can't feel it. Right. So we might be the first person to see that toe. And so the student's job is to, among other things, to notice and log and realise that. And the chances are, with the level of necrosis on that toe, she could lose it. Right. Which is the fascinating thing that we've got. Someone like Sophie who is able to make that look... Well, it's the first way you've described it. Do we? Gross, sir. And actually, we've all had stories as being nurse where you've pulled the bed sheets back and the toes come off. Oh. Yes. Okay, yeah. And that's sadly not uncommon. Right. And we kind of want to show the real-life grossness of nursing and health care in general. Because it's interesting. It's not just for shockfaxe, sir. Right. Heaven knows, like, someone on actual war is going to have much... grosser seems like such a reductive term, but much more shocking stories than that. Yeah, definitely. Every week. It's very funny as well, because students don't realise as lecturers or staff we are always listening. So if they say anything slightly de-rockistry, we can pull them up on it and get, okay, so patients hear everything. Yes, they do. So with this... Sorry, I don't know why I would say yes, they do as if I know that. I just... They really do. They hear everything. This, of a sword, is very quiet. Normally, it's a very loud environment, really, really, really busy. How many students would you have in here? We can have up to 25 to 30 students. I'm a full sim. Yeah. And we have the delight, sir. Do you want to press the... Oh. What happened with me? So we have the bed alarms and stuff. So we will switch them on and as in patients of Buzin, the phone will be ringing. They'll be students doing it and it gets very loud up here. Which is quite authentic for an actual ward. And we also have like crash trolleys on both sides as well. Which is what you would have if someone was to have a cardiac arrest. Yeah. It's got everything you could possibly need in the event of a cardiac arrest. And presumably at some point during a simulation of mannequin might have a cardiac arrest. Yeah. Which is something that we're going to show you. Oh, okay. This is what... That just blinks. Ah! Now, I said that. I didn't say he, she, they, I said that. So my brain... Yeah, that blinking is enough to make me go, oh, no, not a human. There's different levels of realism. Yeah, so all the mannequins you've met at the moment are all simulating life ones. But this one actually does things. So if you notice, she is breathing. She is. The chest is going on there. Now, is there actually a fan can I detect breathing if I... No. Okay. But what you can do is you can find a pulse No. where you would do on a normal human being. Got her under hands. So if you put two fingers just... Just... Lighting down. Also, if you press to your ward it will stop as well. Yeah, which is not... Yeah, of course. That's... So you can take an accurate pulse. And what Sophie's got there is the controls. Oh, so that's hooked up to the monitor there. It's showing correctly the heart rate, which is... Yeah, I'm not going to say I got her at 80, but it's like, ah, it's about a bit more than one a second. Yeah. And there's, there's blinking. She does actually make noises as well. So we... Aaaaahhhhhhh! Okay. I know you're used to this and like... I don't normally put myself in a position where I have like a free count reaction on camera. That was uncomfortable. That was halfway between a mannequin is screaming at me and the person is screaming at me. They can record scripts, have the mannequin speak and respond, or they can give the mannequin a heart attack. So she's gone into... Saturation signal low, eyes have shut. And I will change the rhythm. The rock, pain, and the... And there's no breathing. There is no breathing. I would not have noticed the lack of breathing. But you're not a healthcare professional or a training to be one. That's probably for the best. But that's the interesting thing. It makes it so there's little changes that seem huge for you. When this was really busy, a noise, eh? Are you going to pick up on that? Are you going to pick up that there's eyes closed, no noise, no pulse? Not when there's three other beds beeping and someone just handed me a baby. Yeah. We can actually do more with these mannequins. We can catheterize some of them. And we can actually fill some of their blood as with urine. We don't tend to do that too much because it's electrical. And... It's a bit of a panic sometimes. Yeah. I know myself and several lecturers have spent a lot of a few times running into the office going, I need a bag, a bag of four skins because we are doing catheterization and we require that. That's... And they come in a little bag and you have to physically put them onto the janitorial. Right. I told you... And you need a new one each time? No, it's just because we remove them every now and then because obviously it's people who are circumcised, people are not. So when you get to your mannequin and you're like, oh, actually I can really do with one, that has a four skin. Okay. Because I love the complexity for doing a catheterization. Right. I'm really glad people are training for things like that. It's just... It's a thing that you'd never think of as a layperson. No. And that's the one thing we've all seen with the tech team that we have. We're able to ask for really random things. It's kind of normal that it really is. Sophie is one of several people on the clinical simulation technical team and that team gets some requests that really only makes sense in this context. You can literally say anything and it does not bother us at all. Like if I have people coming in like, can we have some poo? Yes, that's fine. Yeah. I need sort of question really. We're just like, yeah, that's fine. We'll just walk in across campus with a... Of your rinse. Is normal? Or if we require a particular smell. So there's certain smells within healthcare. Which sounds very strange, but if you smell that smell, it means certain things. Yeah. So there's something called Melina, which is basically a bleed, but it's from the bowel. So when someone basically passes feces, it will be a different color and it'll smell almost I.N.E. Right. Once you've smelled that, once you've seen that, you know that that's quite an emergency sort of situation. That's not going to be in any text form. No. Like the description is, but that's not going to help you have that realisation. It's that immersive thing and this is why the wards best when it's noisiest. Yeah. It smells like hospital ward. Right. It has to. This is your heads up for where the goo starts. It's not much to begin with and it's blurred and desaturated in this version, but if you have a weak stomach and a strong imagination, continue with care. We head over to see Chris, a mannequin built to represent a transgender patient who's been on testosterone on tea. And as far as the team here know, that's the only medical mannequin in the world that represents someone who's trans. The blurring you're about to see isn't because of the chest. It's because of the chest wound. They're based on someone that's been on tea for six years. Right. So if you notice, the nipples are quite engorged. That's quite common facial hair. So we have actually facial hair, chest hair. Yep. And that's all individually done. Obviously, I know you're not going to be able to show this on YouTube, but Chris's genitals are exactly what they would be for someone that's on tea. It's been on tea because there are going to be changes there. Yes. So we have engorged labia and an engorged clitoris hood. We did have plans to get another transgender mannequin, male to female. However, the company was taken over by a US company and they stopped making them. This is really unfortunate. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes they don't tell the students that Chris is trans because if Chris was a patient arriving to a hospital unconscious and alone, no one's going to tell the doctors then. We've actually added a bit of Moulin today. She'll say Sophie has. Oh, that's new today. Yeah. Yes. Right. So Sophie's done it. I was going to say as top surgery scars go, something's wrong there. Yes. Very much so. And the reason we've kind of done it like this is because when we talk about gender affirming care, the weight list is so long that people are choosing to go abroad. Oh, yes. Which adds a level of complexity and an increased chance of infection. This is representative if Chris had gone abroad or even in the UK and things have gone wrong. Something's gone wrong. The mannequin has regular top surgery scars as default, but the things that went wrong, additional redness, the wound, that was not part of the mannequin, that was Sophie's work. That day, a one-off piece just for this video. And it's not just superficial. Oh, go. Wow. That's. Gory? Yes. I didn't expect that. I mean, of course it's realistic. Of course that's exactly what would happen. What are you using for that? Like what's... So that is actually Vaseline, for to all you, and Jelly. No, Kim. There was a quite an impact conversation last week about can we make it look thicker? Can we make it look a bit greener? That was helping between us, too. I'm trying to figure out, like, I want it to be accurate and Sophie's incredible. And you've got the experience to know you've seen stuff like that. Yeah, that's what we would call quite a sluffy wound. Sluffy, I'm okay. And would probably require a bit of packing, because as that drains out, there's going to be a cavity. You've been like, well, I know there's a cavity, because you made one. But there'll be a cavity that will require packing. Because when we're dealing with wounds, we heal from the inside out. We don't heal from the outside, because that cavity still will be there. And it will work as close as you can make it to the real thing. Yeah. And it's so unbelievably accurate. And it's cool. I got very excited about it. I have to ask. May I? Yeah, okay. I'll wait, wait, wait, because we're hand-ghosts. Oh, yes. No, apologies. I mean, that will also mean I don't have to clean my hands much, but thank you. Thank you. If you want to give it a wipe as well, just in case. This feels extremely uncomfortable for me, but I imagine not as uncomfortable as a patient who hadn't had. So, may I? Yeah, yeah. I don't want to ruin your heart. Oh, yeah, that's... That is setting off a very slight, not nausea reaction. But you know the reaction where your mouth... Yeah, it's also a different life. Just in case you might... Yeah. ...grow up later. Yeah. Just a little bit of that reaction. All right, I'm going to put that in the waste bag. Thank you very much. If you've ever seen a video of something gross and wondered why your mouth was watering, it's not because you're hungry. It's because your brain is thinking you might need to throw up soon and that will make it easier. So, that's the ward. I said, thank you to Kay. And then Sophie took me over to another building to see two other mannequins. They checked that I was okay with seeing some blood and gore and that they told me very little else other than the simulation would begin when I pulled back the towel. I switched to my 360 camera and set up a few others because whatever was about to happen, it was going to happen very fast. Hi. Hi. I'm Tom, nice to meet you. Yes, Vianjay. Who's this? So, this is one of our trauma mannequins? Okay, that's blood. If you want to pull the towel back. Right, that's blood. Are we, are we, are I basically? Yeah. Okay, I'm with the job. Okay, sure. Okay, let's pull back. But, oh my god, okay. That's right. What do I do? That's a bloody stump with the bones sticking out of it. We have active bleeding. I mean, blood is pumping out of there. We'll get a close-up later. I didn't have time in the moment because immediately I was handed a tornie-k and told to stop the bleeding. You want to get that tornie-k right? Oh my god, okay. Yep. And then pull it nice and tight, that. Yep. Thank you. Now, half of my brain knows that this is all fake. Right, half of my brain knows that I'm on camera. I'm not going to say I was fully convinced that there is something about seeing the blood and gore that startled me into believing it. More than I otherwise would. A part of my brain was treating it like a nightmare where you're still in school and you haven't prepared for the test. I am in scrubs, I'm sending a patient on a floor that part of my brain is accepted is bleeding out and dying in front of me and someone is handing me a tornie-k and I don't know how to do this. And then you want to twist that bit there. Twist that bit there. And then you want to soak it in. All right, I'm going to help you here. I'm not that full on panic here. Okay, yeah, I got that completely wrong because I... So that wants to go under the leg. Oh my god. And then you want to twist that as... And it tucks in there. Nice and tight, yeah. And then that goes over the top. There we go. Stop the bleed in. I was bad at that. The patient would have died. I should learn first aid because if that had been a real emergency situation, I would probably have been much worse than that. The blood is theatrical blood. The same stuff used in stage productions. And as for where it was coming from, you see that blue towel conveniently covering a bit of the ground? What's going on behind there? Is that... Is there someone pumping? Yeah. Right. Okay. Sure. The technician didn't want to be on camera, but they're using one of those garden hand pump precious sprayers to push the blood through. Anyway, we put a blast of bandage on the patient, which I was also incompetent at. So just be careful because there is a bone sticking out last week. Yeah, there is. Can be quite sharp. That also stops the patient seeing their mangled leg if they wake up. And then with the other bit of the leg, we want to put in a bag and take it to the hospital with the patient. Okay. Do we have the other bit of the leg? Uh, we don't. Okay. That bleeding limb was made by Sophie for this video. The mannequin is just missing a lower leg. It's not bloodial, gory by itself. The team now get to reuse that bleeding lymphroesthetic in a load of other situations. That's an asset that they'll have for a while, but they wanted something shocking and I was shocked. So last thing, let's do the close-up. So yeah, that's without tourneyk. That's incredibly disgusting. I don't know if I can show that. Also, Jay, who handed me the tourneyk, he's seen plenty of things like this for real. To the mystery technician behind the screen, but I know he doesn't want to be on camera. Could you start pumping again, please? Could you... Oh my god! Is that a realistic amount of blood, or is that low or high or...? That is a realistic amount of blood. That's a realistic amount of blood. Yeah, if we get there in time. So that would be about, I mean, what, there's eight points in a person? About six litres. Six litres? Six litres, yeah. So yeah, you're going to lose six litres very quickly. You meant that, right? I feel weird doing that, but that's... How realistic is that? Is that...? That is very realistic. Okay. Yeah, that is as close to real how we can get it. Wow. So yeah, the only thing I would say is that there's no smell. So in real life, you would be able to smell the eye and in the blood. Right. They should come. But everything else looks real. Thanks, folks. Oh! You know what else is on Nebula? Not just the unblurred version of this episode, not just the next episode in this series, but also Nebula originals that you can't watch anywhere else, like Day Pass from the channel, not just bikes. Which is about, well, just why don't you tell them? Hi, Tom. Hi. Day Pass is a public transit travel show where I visit a different city every episode, see some interesting cultural and urbanist destinations, while also riding as much public transit as possible. Right now, as this video goes out, Nebula annual subscriptions are 50% off. That's $30 for the year, which works out to just $2.50 a month if you use the link on screen or in the description. And there's even 40% off a lifetime subscription. You can watch Day Pass right now. You can watch the goo from this episode right now. And as for the next episode, well, next time, or right now on Nebula, I drive something, nicknamed the floating coffin, get scared by a moth and apologize to a seagull.