My next stop on the road trip is a little bit personal. I've parked up in Scarborough on the coast of the North Riding of Yorkshire. It's one of the great British seaside resorts, which I'll give you more context on when we head to Brighlington soon. Set back slightly from the North Bay of Scarborough is Peas Home Park. Each summer there's a sort of things you'd expect from a park in a seaside town, a bandstand for concerts, pedalos and rowing boats for rent, a little putting green. And then there's the naval warfare. Seven a.m., all quiet in Scarborough. And welcome to Peas Home Park. Well, I was on holiday as a kid. Used to come here sometimes. In the naval warfare at Peas Home Park was always a... Flatten mythical thing. The posters advertise a sea battle in miniature, including fireworks. And while I didn't have a camcorder back in 1996, someone else did, and they let me use their footage. Thank you, John. So this is roughly what I would have seen as a kid. Scale model ships sailing around the lake, pirate techniques going off. She's well-truly outnumbered. Even model planes flying overhead on wires, apparently dropping bombs. All together. As you can see, she's taken two diwets at the house. She is a blade. And a big fireworks finale. And the most astonishing part of it all, those ships are not remote controlled to explain how that's worked for nearly a century. I met up with Noah, one of the park staff, and I got to go behind the scenes into the boatyard. I'm probably excited about this. Just saw the naval warfare as a kid. Like, this is lovely. Three of those boats are on a winch system, pulled on cables from the boatyard. All the others. They're all manned. If they're no manned. Yeah. I think we'll be able to get you in one. Oh, okay. I just... To try. Yeah, that is definitely something I'd like to try. Thank you very much. But I also, I don't want to get in the way. Like... He says carefully setting up the camera shot and trying to angle it. Like, I don't want to get in the way. You've got to show the put-on. Five of the boats have a crew member on board. One person per boat hidden, lying down inside, piloting the ship, and setting off the pirate techniques that are right next to them. And while I wasn't going to be part of the show, obviously, I was going to get to try piloting one. 1927 it started. Oh, you're coming up to the centenary then? Yes. I mean, when it first started, all the boats were kettle powered. Right. And then... It was the only time it stopped was for the Second World War on the Covid. Yeah. When they came back to the boat after the Second World War, they'd not been... They weren't damaged from the war, they just weren't meant to. Yeah. So they decided to replace the fleet and that's when the motors came in, that we decided to use. And now they're all on by at least four car batteries. So those two ships are pulled out on cables. Yeah. Those are the ones with people in them. People in them, yeah. And there's a rowing boat to take to the route. Yep. Which looks very odd at that scale. Well, that's just a really big rowing boat all of a sudden. Hi, I'm Tom. I'm Brandon. Brandon. And Richard. Richard. Nice to meet you. All I want to do is get them out on tour. We're starting to get like the nice silvery cable visible, which is an indicator that it's never been in the water, so we're getting to the end of the reel. No, it's not. It's a trouble to me. 70 years old. They've got an electrician look that I'm nested. I just think this is such old technology that we've got down here. But it works. But it works, yeah. And you can fix it with regular parts and nothing special. Pretty much so. Just for their maintenance and just open-priced. Yeah, prayers. That's what we fix in there. They take the cable reel out onto a rowing boat and polish across the water. So everybody, every show, we set this up. So the first thing we'll do is we've got three eggs up now. OK, I'm sorry. Apologies to Richard because he's doing manual work over water. I couldn't risk putting a microphone on him. It might get knocked off. So between the ores, the water and the ducks. I'm going to have to explain this one here. They have three cables to lay out in a specific order. Out from the boat shed, round a pivot point on the shoreline, and then to each boat's starting point. We have a specific guard. They look like they get us below. The British pride is the one they're bringing out now. That will go to this pole that's directly behind me. And then it goes over towards the bridge. This one's the lowest one in the water. So I'll put this out first. You don't want this to sit over the top of the other two. Right, so cables are at specific heights in the water. It gets in the right order to prevent them from... You don't want them rubbing on each other the whole time because of the course. Let's see, 30 shows a year. That was a lot of damage to me. The reason they pivot the wires is so they can have three boats moving in different directions, all powered by the winch of the boat shed without any remote control needed. Those boats actually only travel in a straight line forward and backward between the starting point of the pivot, but with all the chaos going on and all the other boats, the audience doesn't spot that. No idea who we will be doing the special behind the scenes effect. He has to operate the pulleys. I'm doing all the switchboard for all the front effects and the set of the bombs off on the three boats. We'll talk about that switchboard in a moment. First, at the other side of the lake, they'll just tie on the cable to the shore for now and only put it under tension just before the show when they move the boats out. There's going to be tourists out there on pedalos until then. Now, about that switchboard. The switchboard, so... Got the submarine at the top. You see what the thing's labeled? We'll put the effects on. The now effects are always pretty ridiculous. Amazing Yorkshire as well, which is nice. This is probably 1930s, maybe. Yeah. Everything here really is... Oh, you can sit down there. But they are the old engines, so we've taken out the boats. Oh! Since we're replaced by mobility scuba engines. That makes sense. Mobility scuba and wheelchairs. I remember working with Colin Furs. If you know Mad Link, you're invented. Yes. Years ago, anything where it was putting like high-powered stuff and mobility scuba motor's wheelchair motors, depending on whether you needed more torque or speed. So we've got switchboard here. Yeah, so harbour and washing model at birth. Yep. All the stuff on the ground. And there's still no radio control for that. So as those boats move out, they're dragging a long waterproof firing cable behind them. The tanker, that's the British pride. Which I feel a bit sorry for the British pride, I've seen the show on RAID, doesn't... Do anything to Link up on them. And then the submarine as well, which is fairly straightforward. So let's have a look at the other end of those firing cables on the British pride. Across the deck, you can see effects, wires and... Oh, those are... These are all spent there. They're all gone, don't worry about them. It's all hooked up to any power. Oh, yeah, I'm still not going to get close to a used firework though. But these, yeah, these in the shore, all five different points. And you can see the... On these, the arms, fall down. Yeah. They'll fold in the water and sit just underneath so they'll be splashed up like near misses and... Right! It's not a tilt, as I mentioned earlier, with the... Oh, yeah. Remember that boat from the Kencorder footage that got hit and suddenly listed to the side? This is how it's done. And it also involves pirate techniques. This here. Oh, it's a massive concrete bar. Big lump of concrete, right? So now the ship's upright. Yep. Let's literally like that until... ...they blow up, but flies out. Hopefully it rolls. Yep. And all of a sudden the ship is listing in the water. This is in a while, yeah. You might assume that something like this is going to be run by enthusiastic volunteers, perhaps older retired folks, but... No, these are park staff, council employees. It's part of the job of running Peasong Park. And they have to train up new people all the time. The satellite season will do a run through. We'll get everyone in parts, just get used to being in them. There's driving in them, and there's being in it as well. You know, you stick someone in it and then they have a panic attack. It's like being in a coffin with water, essentially. Um... Yeah, obviously. We're not going to force them in a bar. No, if you can't do it, you can't do it. Yeah. And it's not something everyone here is comfortable with doing, you know. Don't want to ever fast to go in... No. It's not something you can really say to someone. Yeah. All the boats you can sit up in apart from the aircraft carrying our coil. The ones with the air conditioner. Yeah, the ones with the air conditioner. You can sit up. You're not like lying completely pro. Not like a complete fire apart from an air conditioner. Which that is... Whoever has that boat, you know... Um... I mean, in the show, it's probably the boat with the least amount of things to do. But it is not an easy one to get to grips with. Meanwhile, Brandon and Richard are getting the last cable out. We've got all three of us in the event of one of us not being able to do. At the end of the week, we can all do each of them as jobs. So you'll see, we can look after this all the... It's the golf in the show. Every time, I think that we don't have someone's been introduced as well. Three new ideas, fresh bolts and questions to get asked. You know, there's certain things that will happen in wet light that you're doing at this work. Um... There's a... There's a well-known phrase down here, which is, that's just the way it's always been. I know. But you know, we're showing this nearly under a years old. Yeah. So we've changed a few things, hopefully for the better. Job number two. Get the rest of the boats out of the shed. Which involves me putting on some waders. It is still weird to be getting into water in clothing. Yeah, I guess you're not in your wet sometimes when you're feeling like. Yeah, I'm a leaking boat. Sure, it's just the cold. This is... It's uneven, isn't it? Untie the boat. However, did this new... No, they're not. And then bring it over to the side. Lastly, honest, everyone watching this is going, is he gonna fall on the water? I did consider making that the enormous dramatic moment, but no, I did not fall on the water. But I did get to try driving the boats after the break. I have some inside information on Incogni. This is not a normal sponsorship read. Incogni removes your information from data brokers. The people who buy and sell your personal information, like names, addresses, social security numbers, location history. And this is Incogni's headquarters, and this is Ben, who's the product manager? Yeah, and we fight not only data brokers, but people search sites as well. It's those shady companies that tend to sell your personal information for money, and pretty much everyone can access it. In theory, you can opt out of those manually, but it would take hundreds of hours of concerted effort for just one round of requests. Incogni does it all for you. You just register, go through the on-boarding flow. You allow us to act on behalf of you, and we take this defy to them. Here's the weird testimonial. I once met someone who had to deal with the requests from Incogni, and he was really annoyed about you, because you kept emailing. I'm being vague, ironically, for his privacy, because his company isn't one of the dodgy ones. They do have a good reason for holding people's data. But Incogni were actively irritating him, because you just kept doganally asking, if you didn't get a response, there would be a follow-up message. Then you'd come back months later and check. That is the best indicator that I can imagine that Incogni does their job. You can go to Incogni.com slash Tom Scott, scan the QR code, or follow the link in the description for a big discount on the annual plan, and keep your data private. That was solid. I like that. That was good. I was chewing over a hundred bucks. I was chewing over a hundred bucks. Yeah, we can do both. Right, time to try driving. While Noah and Richard rode out to pull the final cable across, I got into a P-Zone Park Naval Warfare boat. There you go. Yep. Well, that was... I made that more difficult than I needed to. Alright. Okay. Sit down. Legs out. Okay. That is your throttle. That's my throttle. Yeah, it's not. So if you let go, it'll stop. Okay. You're going to ease it on. So I'm going to be putling... Oh, no, no, no. Not a bike. Oh, like a motorbike. Okay, yeah. Twist it now. You've got to feel for it. Yeah, you've got to feel for the reverse selection there. Yeah. Some of them are orientated incorrectly. Okay. I'll figure that out. So the motors go the same way, but because of the way that the prop is, depends which way cuts the water. Oh, of course. Yeah. Alright, understand that. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, if the prop's on the other way, it'll push the other way. Yeah, double your. You'll soon figure it out. You just switch that key. Now, mission up. Now, if you twist that throttle, you should feel... Yep. Yeah. Now, what? Okay, so I'm going forwards with that. Yeah. I feel that pushing that one. You're in with your feet. You're in with my feet. Well, okay, yeah. I see it. Yeah. Okay, so are we keeping the top up for now or... The very responsive. Yeah. So, worry about having to start turning, you know, a mile before you want to make a corner. Delid. You can pull down yourself. You should be able to just... Alright. I don't bring it down. Just go. Just go. You're ready to run these bits. Right. If you can go out. Yep. Bare left and score very slowly. Very slowly. And I'll come sit down. Yeah, I'm not going to go... And we'll go from there. Okay. So, slow and steady. Slow and steady. Slow and steady. Just a moment. Okay. I think the best way of explaining quite how big a deal this was for me. And I think quite how big a deal it would be for many people from this part of Yorkshire is that I sent a text, my friend Gary. Yorkshire and Born and Bread telling him that I'd done this. And the reply included enough swearing that I'm not going to repeat it on camera. Mug and Sir is having a joy ride and... ...there's still a lot of work getting the cables out. I'm just getting in there waiting. Oh, hello. It's not me for it to open it up. Really? Oh, yeah. He says don't be afraid to open it up. Alright. That is... Oh, my wood. That is full steam ahead. I cannot believe the left me do this. Left and down a bit. And right and down a bit. And left and down a bit. Don't hit the seagull, don't hit the bandstown. Don't hit the seagull, don't hit the bandstown. Move out of the way, seagull. Move out. Thank you. I've just got full throttle on this boat. I've got full throttle on a B-zone Park Naval Warfare boat. If you didn't grab round here, I know this might not mean much to you, but to me, this is incredible. I turned the power down there because I thought the ship was going to coast. I've driven a canal boat and some other little boats before. And there's always so much more inertia than you think you have to plan so far in advance. But here, now these were easy. Went off the throttle far earlier than I needed to. This is the sort of thing where you can just... It's not quite the real thing. Yeah, I did have to, at least briefly, bring the lid down. You know what? The visibility's not bad, is it? In that one, he says, all right. Next, the HMS Ark Royal. I should mention, while I'm getting towed in, that for many years, the P-zone Park Show was based on an actual Second World War Naval Battle, the Battle of the River Plate. But these days, it's just British forces versus an unnamed enemy, which is why the British ships have names, they're based on actual ships, like the Ark Royal, the aircraft carrier. Here we go. Here we go. Raaah! That's some of your noise I made, right? So sit... Okay, don't put your weight anywhere other than the Sancta Tom. Okay, I'm bleak. Oh, okay. Yep. You're certainly in. Yeah, I'm definitely in. You're limited to space in this one. I am. You've got a handle that wants to poke you in the chest. Yes. You currently sat very proud. Oh, right. For right now, do you want to go out where you can see over the top? No, let's do it properly. Let's do it properly. With the lid on. Let's do it. Yeah. Because I've had the joy ride, haven't I? I've had the bit where... You've had the pleasant. Yeah. Right, okay. So, my head has to be... Your scooty right down. Yep. I'm going to slide this lid towards you. Yep. Oh, good grief. You mind your head. Yep. Well, that's... That's an experience. Quite different. You said it was like a coffin earlier. I can see why. I don't know if I can see you in there, but I'm just in there. Right. Ignition. A little bit of power. That's a noise. Go this way to go forwards. Okay, look, it could be worse. It's all I'm saying. Turning to the bandstand. I couldn't really see when you piloting the art royal. One hand on the throttle. One hand on the steering lever that wants to hit you in the face. All you have are two. One hand on the throttle. One hand on the steering lever. One hand on the steering lever that wants to hit you in the face. All you have are tiny port holes, most of which you can't see anything through from that angle. So you have to remember what you have seen and build up a model of the environment in your head. Presumably the drivers pick up the skill and know the lake like the back of their hand. But when you're piloting an icon of scarred for the first time, it's a bit nerve-wracking. Also, you may spot that I had some company in the boat, a few mobs. I'd not noticed the mobs. I was too busy trying not to crash, but I will notice one of them very soon. I'll there are a lot of tourists watching me. Alright, let's be honest. All the people watching are hoping at some level. They'll then suddenly yell everybody down and round the bandstand. But I think I'm round safely. Now open her up a bit. Teccharine. I'll open it up and take her in. Got it. I steadily took the art royal up to full throttle. Look, I know it might not look much from outside, but when you're lying with your head, by the waterline for the first time, it does feel unsafe at that speed. Why me that's fast. This feels like joy riding. This feels like I'm going far too fast. Oh, blind me with a pedalogue coming in at speed. Ah, that's fine. That's fine. Hello. Hello, tourists, as if I'm not a tourist. I didn't spot that pedalogue. Hello, a few seconds difference. And, well, they'd have stopped. Or they'd have taken invasive maneuvers. I guess it's not exactly dangerous. Of course, when the battle's happening, that wouldn't be a problem. There's no public on the lake then. But it did alarm me a little. I still have not noticed the moths. I wasn't looking inside the boat at all. And then one of them decided to wake me up. God, I cannot see the critical areas here, but no one's shouting at me. I feel like that was very close on the left. Oh, my God, there's a moth in here. Ah! I don't have 1,000 moth or a butterfly. Didn't expect to have that from my voice went up to our octaves. That reaction would have been far more appropriate for the firework. I'd be helping set up soon, not for a moth. But never mind, a parked up was let out of the arc royal and then told that the moth incident could have been so much worse. What do you mean they do that? It was a frog. A frog? Frog in the boat with a moth and a butterfly. Frogs moths and butterflies. That's when you set, when it affects off. And they all just, obviously, hear the effect. And then you have 5 or 6 or 100 smush into the side of your face. And they affect directions. The last job then was the final setup for the show. The team rigged all the explosions and effects on the boats, towed three of them out, attached them to the winch cables, and plugged in the wires for the detonators. And under very strict supervision, I was allowed to prep one firework, the big boom that signals that's half an hour until the show. Next job is this beauty. All right. Take that. Yes. Okay. Okay. This is going to be our 230, the axasant, the first scaeror, also. It's a 2 for a narrator, Jim. Right. Yep. His lock. So I'll go and show you where it goes. Okay. That's fine. I'm just, you know, actually holding an explosive. 17 5mm white crackling. Right. So, in the tube first. Whichever however you're comfortable, I would pop it in the tube first. All right. In the tube first. Make sure your head's not looking straight down when you connect it. Thank you. That's it. I wasn't worried about this until you said that. Now, the thing is, well, I'm aware that everything is switched off. It's always in the back of your mind. It's always in the back of your mind. Just this moment. So you can always move. Just this moment. Yeah. Just come over here just in case. And we're fine. Because of course we're fine. But that's just, you know. Yeah, though, we're professional. Yes. Yeah, you are. They let me flip the switch to fire the explosion too. Now, they did mention that the firework was used as two things. First, a cue for the show's narrator to start his warm-up. And second, a bird's scourer. My apologies to the seagull that was tucked away under the dock. Three, two, one. Then more of the park staff arrived to drive the boats. Jim the narrator, warmed up the crowd. I said my thank yous and goodbyes. And it was very quickly back over the bridge to see if the show itself was like I remembered from the 90s. Can you see the washing these on? Well, let's keep that washing with big boot, please. Come on, let's do it. A wash-shap. We've got to be done with the fallen silence. Oh, my God. I don't need to cue as big as it. Next time, or right now, on Nebula, a lot of sugar and a completely unnecessary joke involving 1990s Dutch happy hardcore music.