I went on a road trip through every English county and filmed something interesting in each of them. And my journey started with fire, molten metal, and taking a sledgehammer to a piece of history in the centre of the country in Leicestershire. It was 7am when I parked up at the John Taylor Bell Foundry, the last working Bell Foundry in the UK. Hello! I'm sorry I'm late, I managed to lose my car keys. And after a few quick hellos, I was pointed straight into one of the buildings where they turn molten metal into bells that weigh tons. Wow! Just bells casually lying on the floor. Nope, completely wrong. Those are not bells and I would find that out in a minute. Now there are around 30 people working at the Foundry. I met quite a few of them over the course of the day, but the folks I spent most time with were Anthony and Sam. Sam Well, Borgor. Anthony's the former, he's been working there for a while, and Sam. You've been working out a lot? I've been here six years, I started in 16, and when I first started, I couldn't lift, move, or carry this. And now? All right. I think I got it. Okay, right, well, this is going to be embarrassing. Okay, I can at least lift you. You can, I can do that. No, not out of town's like telling you. See, he passed it to me because we were using it for a job, he just, he just, I literally just walked by him, handing it to him, and he nearly just went to the side. He went with it, and was like, I'm going! The plan for the day was to cast four bells, and I'm going to be there, generally demonstrating why I tend to work with a keyboard and not massive heavy lumps of stuff that need workshop cranes to move them. If you want to get involved at any point, that will not be a problem. I'm not sure what the city boy can really add. Can you swing a hammer? Have you ever swank a hammer? I've done like half-day black smithing once. Oh, okay, yeah, a bit. All right, when we left the smester bells up, because that's graft. All right, so, at more, we've got bells to smash off. Yeah, we'll fall. No, bye. Oh, I don't want to do it. Granny won't wonder in on the camera. Sam is the age of a fetus. Straight out of school, straight into here, and he was lovely and he was polite, and he did as he was told, and now he's the most teenage teenager I've ever met. But I'm not teenage anymore. Yeah, well, you want to out like it sometimes. No. He's not going to get a kevin' the teenager reference, does he? No, he's not Sam. Cranked open the drying oven, and we started by sitting next to it with a cup of tea. The oven's not hot, it's not like a domestic oven. It's just warm enough to make sure that everything that's put inside dries out. So, anything Bell-related has to be dried before we can even think about going near it with malt metal. These are the four bells that we're going to be casting today. All right. Oh, no. Okay, so that, so I'm confused because those are already cast. No, so these are the outer molds. Okay, let me move my chair as well. So, that's just the outside mold surface. This is what the finished bell will look like. So, it's got all of its inscription, like what the customer's asked for, all the lettering. Yeah. And then this later on will get lowered over the top of these cores. That's the inside shape. Right. So, they'll marry up. And then the cavity in between this surface. Yeah. And that surface is the thickness of the bell. Right. That's got to be so precise. Yeah, yeah. Well, we'll find out when we close them later. The outer casing of those molds is metal. That's what I saw on the floor earlier. All the cases for different sizes and shapes and styles of bell. And those cases date back to the 1840s, because the big lumps of metal to keep the more delicate molds inside safe. They don't need replacing. But packed into those cases are the actual molds for the bells. So, the molding material that we use to make bells is called Lume. And it's effectively like a sticky mud. That's Lume, L-O-A-M. Some parts of the world pronounce it Lume. But Lume is basically sand, clay, bit of water. With some extra stuff we'll talk about in a moment. So, this material here, is made of this. All right. We apply this to the steel case. So, you can see how that's the steel case there. Oh, you're right. It's warm. It's warm in this. It's like... And then we've got the Lume here. Obviously, because this is wet, that's what we have to dry. They make the bell molds out of Lume, press all the letters and designs into it. And then once it's dried, it's solid. I was worried about putting a fingerprint in the Lume and distorting the bell, but no, Anthony can knock on it once it's dry. Wait, that can't be made of Lume. Yeah, it's all... That is the same material as that. Just dried out. Yes, it's gone... Has it gotten anything added to it? It's got clay, goats, hair and horse manure. Sure, okay. Or the horse manure, because horses can chew straw. A lot finer than we can cut it. I had to do some research to work out why they need that and why I can't be certain. Most of the sources I found said that it's because when the bell's cast, organic materials burn when hit by the molten metal, and that creates tiny channels for gases to escape. If you didn't have them, steam would build up and the whole thing would explode. Someone centuries ago, picking out that's a good way to stop your bell's exploding. And the reason it all has to be dried first, any moisture in there is going to instantly expand when the molten metal hits it. Oh, and you're going to get steam in a closed cavity. It's like just going to steam, it'll go bang. Right, that's... So everything has to be dried. So today, that is, as a sound was described, it perfect that temperature. That's a... That doesn't sound safe. That's the outer casing of the bell mold, but a bell is not a solid lump of metal, so you also need the core, the inside part of the bell mold. And at this point, Sam casually broke out the blowtorch. Pretty worn-in to backstabbed warm. Yeah, it does. I'm going to move that away. Yeah. Oh, okay, one. So, because this is a different mold material, right, we... What's the material? Well, we call it air-set sand. Right? But it's plenty. So we have to... I can explain all this in a minute. That inner core is made of chemically bonded sand. They've got a small silo of sand in the corner of the foundry along with two big barrels of resin and catalyst, and a mixing machine with various controls over it. What comes out initially feels just like slightly sticky sand. You can sculpt with it. But over time, the resin will harden it into a solid mass. And the settings on the controls let you choose how rigid or crumbly it gets, and whether it takes minutes or hours to get there. But because the core is made of that sand, it can't go in the oven. So these all have to have an alcohol-based coating, which we then set fire to, which is what we just did. Which... And that cures it. Cures it. Right. Okay. This is the face of an idiot who is trying to understand the sequencer events here. Okay, so... Outer mold of the bell with the design crest into it. That's made of loom inside a reusable Victorian-era steel case, which gets dried solid in the oven. In a mold of bell, big solid lump of chemically bonded sand, covered in several coatings, and cured with fire. Different temperatures can damage molds in different ways. Basically, because we let the molds cool slowly, that puts added strain and pressure on the sand molds. So they need an extra step of protection. The final layer on those inner cores is a gray coat with graphite in it, and that's to let the final bell come out of the mold easily. Normally, if you're casting metal, you want it to cool quite fast, but for bells, it's got to be slow. Otherwise, the tone of the bell won't sound right. So to cast a bell, you kind of have to go against all of the good principles of making a good, of making a good casting, right? Which so it's a constant, because otherwise it won't sound right? Yeah, basically it's that it will just sound a bit sharp, which is a big thing. Right. I don't, I don't bell ring or anything like that, and I'm not very musically gifted. I can play the triangle. I think sharp there is referring not to the pitch of the bell, but to the quality of the sound, whether it's resonant, and it sounds like you're ringing a bell, not just hitting a lump of metal with a hammer. That, I was expecting that to go clunk. That did not go, that actually sounds really nice. We won't know if this mold's been any good. Consider, and we made it, you know, this is two weeks worth of work. Yeah, and you use it once. Yep, and it all boiled down to 20 minutes. Once the metal's in, so to give it 20 minutes to solidify, and then that's it. That's two weeks worth of work, and we've just got to see and hope that it was done, right? What's it like the first time doing that? I imagine it's more fitting than you're, memory. I get really nervous every time. He's nervous about things. I'm the more chill one. Yeah, he's the most genzy person I've ever been there. The actor's not care. I got stressed about anything. Nothing's worth stressing about. It frustrates me how, like, he's not that's to say, he's not complacent or anything like that. Oh, he's just got a much better mindset about it. But I'll still get a bit twitchy and a bit nervous every time. And it's not a bad thing, anything. You know, this is a dangerous shot. You know, it's a dangerous job. He says casually, pushing the fire out. The techniques have changed a bit over time. Chemically bonded sand and compressed air hoses are obviously modern inventions. But if you put a 15th century bell founder in that workshop, I think they'd recognise most of the processors. And the metal would be much the same, about a four to one ratio of copper to tin. It's not quite medieval still, but it's about as medieval as a modern job gets. First of all, let's go and turn the fire alarm off. Oh, because there's going to be a fire. But why would in a building designed to burn things? Why would you put fire alarm in? Byron and mind, if we can't put it out and we run it, it's just run to it. We can't put it out, run away. Cases have been dried, cause have been coated. Those will get put together in a bit, but next they need to get the furnace going. The inside here is a ceramic pot. You can just see the lip of it here. When we get it going, the fire will create a cyclone around that pot and heat it up. And that's how we, that's how when this gets red hot, that's how we'll melt the metal. If that leaks for whatever reason, the metal has to be able, it's full contents has to be able to go somewhere. So under these two plates, you can just sort of see down here is a massive trough. Yeah. But that's just, we have to keep empty at all times. So that if this starts to leak, we can drain it straight into this trough. Which is going to give people a very bad day cleaning up afterwards, but it safely gets a flat one. But that bad day of cleaning is infinitely better than the old time after us spilling on the floor of this. Yeah. Then the other consequences, absolutely. But then there's a safety, there's an added safety feature. This whole floor is a giant sanpep. These are just steel plates put on the, on the floor for us to walk on. But underneath this is just sand. It's a diesel powered furnace, a colossal thing that takes hours to heat up to the temperature it needs. Because it's not warmed up yet, you can feel a little bit of heat there. That you can feel that vortex. Oh, you pull. Yeah, you can. A little bit of heat coming from there. And then you look at the gap. Oh, blind me, all right. You can see the, you can see the flame inside there. Now you can see the flame starting to circle up. Yes, it's, yeah. Right, now we're on the top. Now it's all, it's all count down. Now we've got to get the ease red air before that's red air. I'm going to stay out of your way. Their next job is to stick together the outermoles and the inemoles. The first three went without a hitch. Perfect. Like a glove. Oh, and it jumped out straight down. Yeah. And down. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that side. Yeah. Yeah, boy. They put some sealant on the bottom of each case as well just to make sure everything was locked in and then they clamped them together. They tried the fourth one. It didn't quite match up. It needs a better sanding first. And then they were good to go. All right, so I had a great break. I don't have to try to remember what buttons press. They're all labeled, labeled in marks. I know. Look at you. Burns are driving the fourth. Nine beats is the big cheese. If I was cheese, I'd definitely be. We're big cheese. Me big cheese. That's actually such a big cheese and almost me cap. That's a good point. If you were cheese, what cheese would you be? It's not really boring. I would say. You've spent cheddar. I'd be red last stop. A little red last cheese. Cheddar is definitely the close second. What would you be? I'd feel like I'd be brave. Maybe a nice camembert. That's not me, Mel. Yeah, someone's not. Thanks, mate. Oh, and it just goes straight down. Done. It didn't, you know what I mean by like, three of them. Not a problem. Happy to be closed. Let's crack on. 20 minutes. This one? No, don't want to be a bell today. It's not feeling it. Anthony and Sam had a very difficult question for me. If you were a cheese, what cheese would you be? Yeah. See, the question is not, what cheese do you like? No, it's what if you were a cheese, you won't come tomorrow. Oh no, I'm a cheese. What cheese do you want to be? The best answer I've got is like that American plastic cheese. Where? Like, it's all way, it's superficial, you know? Yeah. It's not made of your any heart, man. It's cheese. Yeah. Oh no, I'm not going that far. Holding my second camera there is May, who handles all the Foundry's social media. Because yes, John Taylor's is the last working British bell foundry. But they also have some other lines of work, installing the bells, advising on bells and bell towers. And there's also the bell foundry trust, which is a small museum and heritage attraction doing tours. And they have outreach to do. There's not the demand for bells that they once was. The bells they're casting today are for a church down in Cornwall. And the raw material is that churches, old bells, which were cast in 1883, by that exact foundry. There's nothing wrong with the metal itself. It's just that after more than 140 years of summer heat and winter cold while being repeatedly hit with hammers. I mean, frankly, I wouldn't sound good after that. The bells, well, they don't sound so good either. But you can't fit a whole bell inside a furnace. So they need smashing into pieces. At this point, I need to give you the YouTube viewer of the series a warning. This new format that I'm working with will have mid-roll, host-read adverts in it, like basically every other long form video on the platform, because, well, this ain't cheap. But if you'd like to see all these videos one week earlier without any of those adverts and for one of them without the extensive blurring that's going to be needed, you can watch over on Nebula. There's a link in the description and more about that at the end of the show. Tada! These were made in this building, 1883 was. They've come home to where they were made. They were made up there on those tables with the same and they will become four new bells. And yeah. All right. I've called in that. That means that someone's going to hit him with a slight champion. Yeah, I think it's just some graft to do now. I set up a couple of cameras, but before we started, Anthony did show me that the lettering on the new bells won't just be similar. It's made with the exact same metal stamps. These? Yeah. Are the original stamps? Oh! There you go. They're the same stamps. How do you say they say they're the same stamps? And so they swung the sledgehammer and started to smash up the bells with very little ceremony. Going to go on first so that now next person that it's it and it breaks apart, he did all the grafts. Yeah, absolutely. Someone else is going. That's okay. That's what is there, Thorn? I'll get the GoPro out of the way and flip fine. They're offered to let me sweet down. This is my gesture, it's like very little gesture, it's being a hammer. This is going to be embarrassing. Now that I've taken it, we have to sweetly have a problem. Maybe a year. Right. That was my first question. How have you ever swung a sledgehammer? Yes. Not that often many years ago. Well, I'm just giving, I mean, it's pretty self-explanatory, but all your weight is obviously at one end for swinging. You bring up, obviously the momentum will take it up. Yeah. And then as you come down, slide your hand down and follow through with like your whole core. Right. Because we've seen people try and go like, oh yeah, no, this is done, right? And that's how you break a back, pull out a shoulder. Yeah. All kinds of thing. You want to be aiming for just sort of anywhere there. Anywhere there. That's the best. It's difficult. Don't want for it to happen. Hey, let's go in. Let's crack it. It's going. Let's crack it. Just changing tone. I think I did deal with the guilty. I'm pressing it now. Everyone always does. I'm going to do it. That's mean to happen, Alan. Be sure. I'm sure. I'd love to say it and do it, but. You cracked it? You did? I'm cracked it. Yeah. I didn't do that. That's a tough belt. That's a tough belt. I was waiting for you to just like, being in a flower park. I was like, OK, maybe we'd actually give him the like the artist. It is a very tough belt. You're terrible. Yeah, it just started work. While they smashed up the rest of the bells, Mae gave me a tour around the workshops because they've got a huge space where they make the frames for the bells, that load up other stuff besides and where they do the tuning, which is a process that involves steadily and carefully shaving down the cast bells until they're exactly on pitch. And the offcuts the swarth from that belt tuning, that goes back over to be raw material for new bells. Calm down. Calm down. Before we put big trucks in the furnace, we recycle all the belts if it's going to run. The offshoots are tuning. Right. So we weigh out a load of them. Put them in the furnace first because they're made like a soft base for us to drop all the sharp points in the metal onto. That alone is probably 50 and kilos. Only bigger than that. There's something wrong with it. You don't need the gym. I feel actively guilty just down in the upper camera by well aware that helps save me. Well, I'm going to be free, but not letting me get my hands here at that furnace. How good dream. Want that? There you go. I asked Josh. He said it'd be... ...boxer, I love. The furnace started belching out green fire. Burning off a load of impurities, slowly heating up and then melting the metal. This is only this one in the heart. When we've smashed up that bell and put all this in, that's about hot. We've still got another... ...s... ...s... ...s... ...s... ...s... ...s... ...s... Remember earlier that they said the floor is just one giant sand pit and that the bells have to cool slowly as slowly as possible to get the structure in the sound right? Well, the best way to insulate those bells and stop them calling too fast is to dig them into the sand pit. That's the bottom bit that had the core on. And this is the top bit that you saw as lowering down over the core. And now they are met in the middle. So inside here, there is a cavity that will run the entire length up to the top of the bow. Where once this pit's been dug, we'll lower it in and then we will put a box on top and that's where we're pouring to and then it'll flow and fill the whole cavity. You're seeing a montage here. This took an hour, even with the excavator. It's so nice that you do all these bits now. What was going to happen eventually? No, I know, but I spent so many years having to do it myself. Oh, such hard work. And that's where the molten metal will go. Yeah, that's the pouring bush. That pouring bush is made with the same chemically bonded sand as the inner core of the bell. It sets in just a few minutes and then it has to be protected with the same graphite layer on top, which means they also need to get cured. Oh, wow! Oh, wow! Gee, it's like that. That's hot. Right. Do you see how smokey it is? Yeah. Yeah, I mean, it's more than I know. So when you know it, it creates like a crust on top. You have to break through that crust, go through my brief life checks, make sure we've got everything we need. Just final weight now and then we're all good to go. We were joined by half a dozen feet. We were joined by half a dozen folks over from the workshop who were ready for their part in a well-practiced routine. I was given a heat-resistant suit along with gloves, helmet and face guard. We were joined up on the balcony by visitors on a tour, including folks from the church whose bells they were recasting. And, see, I'm just so checking you one more time. My job is stay behind you. Yeah, so just stay with me. All right. And you're all good. Everybody want the needs, buddy? Gonna assume yes. Cool. Scrackle. They don't pour directly from the furnace into the bell casings because then they'd have to somehow move the whole furnace. Instead, the glowing molten metal at around 1,200 Celsius goes into a smaller pouring ladle. Are you nervous? Yes. I'm always nervous. This was metal pouring like water. Your brain thinks it's water and thinks it's got the properties and weight of water. I know it sounds obvious to say it out loud, but that has the weight and inertia of metal because it is metal. Wait, where's Tom? Did we work out? Please, behind. Here. Is there any point? You feel like you're going to get showered? Yep. Took shoulders in. Took your shoulders in, okay? Yeah, protection neck. Got it. It should be fine, but... Yep. ...the little tricks that you pick up over time. Yeah. That's currently hotter than a volcano. Okay. Every day for you. Well, good news. My camera is working. That's good. How do you know? Because we don't get a second take at that. The metal is giving off its own light. It's illuminating the space around it and our faces. The cameras can't quite deal with it, but there's detail in the surface, little imperfections that aren't glowing as much. Looks like the crumble. So now we're going to pick it up, spin it round, and then I'm going to take all the impurities off the top. This is... quite a lot. Then we'll put it down, we'll put the lid on, and then we'll go down and... Well, we'll have a lot sort of gauge it by eye, what the temperature is looking like, which I think is going to be really hot. They use the overhead crane to move the pot off, extremely dangerous molten metal across to the molds. You can put it down. We'll leave it for a minute, because that is way too hot. So it's too hot right now? Yeah. Okay. All it'll do is we'd pour it in, and it would just absolutely obliterate the mold surface. Right. So it would cast the metal, but all the finish would just be horrendous. Right. So, but then too cold, you just go bang. Yeah, and you just get a slab. Anthony wasn't using a thermometer or an infrared camera there. He was looking at the pot and from experience and knowledge just gone, that's too hot. That knowledge was passed down to him by the people who trained him, and he's passing it on to Sam, and so the chain goes on for centuries. But see how it's like smoking out of every... Yeah. And that, yeah, it shouldn't be normally doing that. Okay. So we've got to wait for it to cool a little. Thanks a lot. Hold your fist, Jill. Yeah, Bill, if you woke up tomorrow and you were cheese, what cheese would you be? Oh, still. So when everybody sees us on the balcony, I think it would be a really serious and professional. This is what rescuing when the visors and that and no one can hear us. And there's quite a few spectators up there as well. Hello. So you see how now look, it's all sort of calming down. I mean, I hope so. I don't know what's showing up on camera, because it's something that really compares to the camera. I'm compared to everything else around. All right, then we're good for the first one. All right. Here's the crucial moment. Weeks of work and hard graft led up to this. One person, Josh, he was controlling the position of the bucket on the crane. Sam was controlling the poor. He's rotating the pot to keep the flow of molten metal steady. Keep going, Sam. Keep going, Sam. Keep going, Sam. Keep going, Sam. You're in the lip. You ready? Yeah, ready? Ready, ready, ready. One more. Nice, a steady. An Anthony was controlling the flow, watching when it's nearly full and providing just a bit of movement in the top to make sure everything's flowing nicely, and it's a constant stream. I don't know if it's showing up on camera, but there's a skin of slightly cooled metal on top, and then just liquid pouring out underneath it. We did pour a quarter of it. We did pour a quarter of this one, didn't we? Well, yeah. Oh, got it. Here we go. Fill the bush. And then they moved on to the next bell. They started with the smallest and they're working on. Nice, steady, Josh. Yep. Good luck. You ready? Yeah. Here we go. These are a bit bigger. This one's a bit bigger, so... Only two inches. Oh? Only two inches. Makes all the difference, mate. Don't let anybody tell you what it doesn't. Oh, got it. Oh, got it. Yeah, got it. Go, go, go. Look at that. Do you want to spill it in it? Two bells down, two to go. They dumped a few handfuls of sand on the top of each one once it's poured as insulation. I like to explain what the folks behind were doing in a minute. Yeah. Ready when you are, Sam? Yeah. Nice to steady. You're just letting it through and making sure it doesn't stick. Yeah. Basically, yeah. I'm controlling the flow. So that it's a constant stream going in. Got it. Right, with all those done, one final bell. The big one. You're a bit warm. Yeah. All right. Nice one. Here we go. Nice and steady, Sam. Yeah. Ready when you are. There was an air of quiet concentration over the whole group now. Everything seemed to be going okay. Sam was pouring the metal at exactly the right speed. The level in the pouring bush was staying exactly where it should be with the inflow matching the outflow. But as we got near to the end of the last bell, Anthony realised something. Oh, there is a lot left. There's a lot left. There's a lot left. The team had worked out the mass of the bells that they were putting in and the mass of the bells that were becoming out. But it could only be an estimate. And there was too much molten metal remaining. The bell mold was about to be full. And they can't let the remaining metal cool in the ladle because they never get it out again. Right, Tom, I need you to go that side please mate. Mate, mate. I need you to follow him. As soon as the last bell was poured, Sam cut off the flow and then very, very quickly got to dig it. Oh, my goodness. And as fast as he can dig, with a thousand plus Celsius pot of molten metal next to him, that hole was getting filled up. So that's just the excess. Yeah, let's just get... So we'll repurpose that. Right. So that'll get recycled again and again. Yeah. Once that's cooled, they can use the crane and forklift to pull out the ingots of metal, break them up and use them again. But it does mean there was some very heavy and unexpected work for Sam. It's warm, mate. Yeah, there. Yeah, it's warm, right here. Shut up. Go on, Sam. You nearly there, kid. I'm surprised at you. You okay, Sam? Yeah, it's just a bit warm. Yeah, that's fair enough. Which means there's one last thing to explain, and which I got to have a go at. What are they doing? Poking sticks into the molten metal? If you take the bar above my hand, yeah, don't put any any resistance. Yeah. Right, hang on, don't put any resistance. Feel that. Yes. That's the top of the core. Okay. It is imperative. We do not hit that. Okay. Remember, there's a hole straight through the middle. If we hit through that, all that vanishes. This is feeding the bell. Adutating the top of it. Just a little to make sure there's no air bubbles, no weird inconsistencies. It's all just solid metal. I'm going to let go of the bar. It's yours. See how it's like kind of spongy. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's the metal structure. It's starting to be real. Right. And actually, I can see what was completely liquid is now just slightly sticking to it. So now just big circles and you're up and down and you can gently touch that mushy bit. I'm not going to gently touch that mushy bit. I'm not going to rid. What's in the other thought you hear today? What? I'm going to give that back to you. Thank you so much for letting me try that. I'm just, whoa. As soon as these are all fed, that's it. Day's done. Um, folks, I hate to be the master of ceremonies here, but I think that is over around the applause for that. Well, absolutely done. Oh, look at that. So which ones are the new ones? So which ones are the refitted ones? So the new ones are the, this one? Yep. That one, that one. The one I did today. It's all three, four, five and six. Wow. Day's three. Day's four. Day's five. And if you're wondering about the numbers that are being called out, that's a future video on my road trip across England. If you want to see episode two right now, you can on Nebula. You'll get all the episodes of this series a week before they're on YouTube, plus exclusive Nebula originals, like the new anatomy of series from real engineering, which starts with a deep dive into the iconic and seemingly indestructible, Nokia 3310 using a CT scanner. Or the season two of comedy presentation show abolish everything. Right now, annual subscriptions are 50% off, just $30 a year, which works out to only $250 a month. Scan the code on screen, or follow the link in the description, and you'll also help support this channel and the England series. As for what the next episode is, well, next time, or right now on Nebula, I hunt for invisible chimneys in the sky and make this noise.