Do you remember that container ship, the ever given, that got stuck in the Suez Canal back in 2021? The final report into what happened came out a few months ago, as I record this, and there were a lot of things that went wrong. It was travelling too fast, there were communications problems between the crew and the local pilots, and there was the bank effect. There are two ways to learn what that is. You can get the theoretical explanation that big ships get sucked to the side walls by pressure differences when travelling at speed along canals. But if that seems a bit abstract, you can learn it hands on. Because this is the Port Iwawa ship handling research and training centre in the north of Poland, and this is one of the places where the folks who steer those big ships learn how to do it. Just to be clear, I'm not getting a full training course. That takes days and includes a huge amount of theory work and study as well. I'm just going to drive a miniature container ship from that round of light and hopefully not get stuck in the Suez Canal. We have started our training activity in 1980. In 90s, we have moved from the old lake towards this one, and practically first training here was realised in 1991, more or less 30 years ago. We are performing training in ship handling. We have a lot of different mock-ups, presenting different waterways. Everything was built using exactly the same scale. One to 24 deep waters, shallow waters, different restrictions, rivers, canals, and what is more important, of course, ship models. Permission to come aboard? Granted. Okay, this is bigger than I thought it was going to be. It's the one of the biggest in the world. 400 meters ship. 400 meter. Scale down one in 24, that's still 16 and a half. Okay, this is big. Cool. We can proceed. That's slower here. So dead slow ahead. And steady as she goes. For what? I assume that means just keep it going straight. These are the tag boat simulators. I don't feel guilty about you. You've taken the controls I'd be on the tag boat, it's going to be up. I was meant to be asking you all sorts of questions here and I am just slightly nervous about driving a tiny boat. It's not a tiny boat, it's a 400 meters container ship. So you have controls there that simulate the effect of tugs on the right foreclubs and you may make a rather hard to port. Hard to port? Oh, I don't know why, but I thought I was going to spin that like the wheel of a pirate ship and it's just a distance. Alright, so what's our plan now? Okay, so now we can go through the lock if you like. Yeah, absolutely. Basically we go that direction. Yeah, south of the island. I feel like I need to go left here. Yeah, make it port. Port, not left. We have had, you know, a history more than 6,000 pilots, masters and chief officers from more than 50 countries. In average 220 to 130 a year, we have beginners, but we have also very experienced masters because a lock is very shallow. Yeah, we will have only two centimeters of water under a kilo. If we have too high speed, we touch the bottom. So the faster I go in shallow water, the more the boat is going to suck down the ground. More, more squirt you have here. Okay. We have to come in the line with the lock. Oh, sooner we do that. More time we have to apply any correction if necessary. That is such a tight sport. Hard to start work for white. Hard to start work for white. So many to feel like I've got this. It's all in the full look part. Mitchips. Yes, please. Yeah. And starboard 20. Yeah. And Mitchips. Yeah. Oh, I think I've over corrected that. There's some very strong work being done by the Doug bounty. Thank you. We have no clearance here. I feel like starboard slightly. Yeah, starboard 20. I can't see how close we are there. Did we clear that? Yes. I think we've cleared that. Yes. Again, solid talk about what? Mitchips. Surely. Starboard 20. Okay. The basic training program takes five days. A liner scale 1, 2, 24 means that time scale is equal to more or as five. It means happens five times faster than in reality. And feeling for a ship may be affected. It is disadvantage. But from other hand, five days of training will correspond to 25 days of training in reality. Hard to start work. Hard to start work. More the helmsman than the captain at this point. Thank you. Hard to port again. Hard to port. Left and down. Yeah. Okay, I think we can make half a head. Half a head. We are clear of the lock. Oh, full of head. Full of head. Did I need to slam that forward so dramatically? Absolutely not. But our first mothers were really very simple. Nothing inside. Just wheel, engine telegraph and that's it. And step by step, you have started to add different facilities. We have electronic navigation. It means very precise GPS system, which allows to measure a given ship model trajectory with precision equal to one maybe two centimeters. Suddenly the nerves have gone. That's nice. Open, open ocean. Open like starboard 10. Starboard 10 because you've got to cancel out what you just given it. Right? Yeah. We're still going quite strongly to port just because that input from the wind. I used to go on the wind. I'm amazed how much the wind is affecting us. Yes, you have to imagine that such a ship fully loaded has about 20,000 square meters of the windage area. Everything during exercises is measured. Centrohertz classroom. And in case of problems we can discuss step by step and we can show where mistakes were made. Oh, I'm sorry, I got distracted by a Corvette. Current, especially in case of shallow water, it's a big problem. It means we have current generators. This current velocity can be changed according to our needs. I thought we hit something. Oh, we did. That's me. Sorry. No problem. It's not like this thing has really mirrors. Okay, half a head. Half a head. We're sailing a massive container ship down the sewage canal. Do you want me to put a little bit of rudder in here? Yeah, it's fine. Now you have to go behind Varta. Right. You can make a port 10. Port 10. Got it. I think we're clearly right, midship. Okay, port 20. Port 20. Midships. Okay. And a full ahead. Full ahead. Okay. Starboard 20. Starboard 20 because we've got to ease out the... You don't know. We'll start feeling the bunker from the Starboard. Okay. First door, we go to Starboard. So it feels like you're midships now. We should just go straight down the middle of this canal, except... The bunker effect, you see, the bow is coming out. It means the repulsion force. So it's about it. Now you have to make a stop to Starboard. Hard to Starboard. Yeah, I mean, sucked towards the port wall. I'm putting full right lock on here. Midships. Midships. Okay. You see, again, it's coming. Yeah. It is. So we have to make a hard to Starboard 20. Hard to Starboard. If I don't do hard to Starboard 20. You would have hit this one. Yeah. Absolutely going to ram that if we're not careful. Yeah. That's so careful. You... Yeah. Hard to Starboard 20. Hard to Starboard. I was midships. We should have been going straight ahead and I think... I have to help with that. You're going to have to help with that. I should have done that earlier. Everybody down. Clear. Oh, clear. Midship. Hard to port. Hard to port. We are lucky one in Schoes. That was more luck than good judgment that was. Our research is focused on Shipcan Link. It means Intellection Forces and Autonomous Ships. We have started the realization of research programs three or four years ago because Autonomous ships would be really very popular. We know that these ten ships links... Yeah. To stop the ship and that ship's links and that carbon is here. I definitely need to put some port in. Yes. Port 20. Hard to port. Okay. Everything in case of Artening Center is realized in real conditions. You can feel very well. Wind. You can feel very well. Current. And everything will deal with weather conditions. Such a situation does not happen in case when using computer simulators. And especially pilots coming to Artening Center for training. Prefer very often to use models instead of computer simulation. Every driver's instinct in me is going, I'm just climbing in reverse, take it round, it'll be fine. No, it won't. That's not how this works. Collisions really occur at Artening Center. The main difference regarding computers and our models is in computers. In case of problems you can switch off everything and you can restart everything. That's okay. It's the case of Artening Center. The only one thing to do is to call technical staff for rescue tasks and quite often our models ascend directly from the training center to our shipyard for different repairing works. And this psychological effect influences very much level of education. People realize everything a little bit differently when comparing with computer simulators. We are home. That was a privilege. Thank you very very much. I know very few people get to us. Another problem. Here every instructor can do that very easily. There is one thing I forgot to ask. Can I push the whistle button please? Thank you.