Over nearly 10 years of making weekly videos for this channel, I've made some mistakes. When they're significant, I will pin a comment to the video, I'll add a card, and I'll make a note on the corrections page on my website. But not many people will see those compared to the original video, so with only a few weeks left until I stop posting regular Monday videos, I figure it's time to officially look back at all the things I got wrong in the last 10 years. And all these mistakes are sponsored by NordVPN, which I have no regrets about using, and whose Black Friday sale is now on. So, what counts as a significant enough mistake for this video? Well, it has to affect the truth of what I said. An editing glitch or a typo in a caption or a mispronunciation, they don't count. They're still going to port me for the rest of my days, but they happen. And it has to be a regular Monday video that's live on this channel. If it's a mistake in another show, it doesn't count. I am sure that some of the facts on lateral the podcast I run will turn out to be wrong in future, despite the question right as best efforts. But here, we're dealing with this series and this channel. You should go and listen to lateral after that. I hated writing this new script, by the way. I despise anything I've made in the past. This was not pleasant to look back on. Particularly my early stuff. But that's where we start. 2014, when my research usually involved typing a couple of things into Google to check that I'd remembered them properly. The UK has four tried and class nuclear submarines. Yes, I looked younger 10 years ago. Never mind, it'll happen to you as well. And the alternatives worse. Anyway, Trident is the nuclear missile. The submarines are Vanguard class. This is where I should have learned to check every little fact in the video, not just the big one, but I still screw that up sometimes. I hate that video, and you'll only pull it entirely. Tacky card, yeah, which is a regular heartbeat. Nope, tacky card, yeah, is an accelerated heartbeat. Again, I thought I knew a word and so I didn't check it. Also, hold the phone further from your face. What these have is a body metallic strip. Modern toasters don't use bi-metallic strips. They use either variable resistors, charge-by-capacitors, or specialised silicon. Allic over at technology connections has a great video about them. Ironically, my video was meant to correct the internet, and I got a big detail in it wrong. Now, in 2015, I went to Svalbard, and I talked about the 24-hour sundial. There are several places I went too early in things you might not know, and I wish I'd saved them for later. And that's definitely one of those places. Anyway, I said, it is the summer equinox today, as I record this. I said summer equinox, it's the summer solstice. The equinox is in spring and autumn, when the days and nights are almost equal length. It's in the name equinox equal night. Yes, I know it's more technical than that. I don't care. Later that year, I was talking about Concord. Again, not a good video, but... That's a really subtle mistake, and it's in the timing. The words are correct, but I basically moved a comma in my head, and then in the subtitles. The crash was in 2000, the Airlines decommissioned Concord in 2003. I should have said, after one of the planes crashed, in 2003, the airlines decided. That should have just rewritten the whole section. Next video about tracking nuclear explosions from Cold War bunkers. Ground bursts that produced local foil, air bursts that spreaded much wider. Wrong way round! Ground bursts from nuclear explosions spread more foil out than air bursts, and they spread it wider, which makes sense, give them the ground, and not the air. Next up, the St. Francis Dam near Los Angeles. More than 50 meters high, holding back 100,000 tons of water. The St. Francis Dam actually held back another 100,000, but 47 million tons of water. I'm going to stick the volume of the physical dam for the volume of the reservoir it held back. In my defense, volume calculations are really unintuitive. 2016, then, the year with the most errors, and we start with a great one. In the original version of a video game civilization, Gandhi was a dick. Just to be clear, I am talking about the virtual representation of Gandhi in a fictional video game. That story was meant to be true at the time. You could find loads of articles testifying that a bug in the game's civilization meant that the virtual Gandhi score for aggression could go negative and then loop round to being massive. But years after I put that video out, turns out it was some giant collective false memory. That bug does not exist. I'd never actually played the game. Now, I also had a whole video called Why You Should Write Down Your Goals Might Be The Worst Video I've Ever Done. And I say had because I decided to move it to being unlisted after watching it back for this. It's just a confusing mess tacked onto a weird story about television and based on one or two research papers. And this was before the replication crisis too, when psychology was still flush with astonishing results about how people could be subconsciously influenced and affected by things. A lot of those studies have not survived attempts to recreate them. Thomas Frank made a great video arguing the counterpoint. I'm not sure I'd agree with that either though. And I suspect the answer to whether you should write down your goals is I don't know, depends on you. Now, there was the time that me and my friends Matt and Paul drove along a road that goes through Russia for about one kilometer. And as long as you don't stop, you don't take the end to Russia, you don't need a visa. 2016 wouldn't do that video now. But as we're approaching, Matt says That pole is where they're spying from. Are you right? Yeah, no, it was just a cell tower. Or at least that's what they want us to think. There is no evidence for it being any more than that. That is my responsibility to check before putting it in the video. Matt had just noticed a thing and said it. And because it felt more like a vlog, I kept it in. My fault, not his. Next one, I was talking about turbines in thermal power plants. Hundreds of tons of steel rotating thousands of times a second. No, no, they spin thousands of times per minute, not per second. Obviously, if your giant electricity turbine is spitting several thousand times a second, something is very wrong and probably on fire. I just said the wrong word, probably because I was kind of stressed from being on top of a wind turbine. Next up, the first time that I have to correct a mistake from an interviewer. I'm not going to play the actual flip back. It doesn't feel fair to point out someone who was kind enough to give an interview many years ago. But I was talking to one of the administrators of West Virginia University about their personal rapid transit system, the PRT. And he said the PRT never shuts down. Yes, it does. At night, on Sundays, outside term times, regularly when there are mechanical failures. Like, that shouldn't have made the edit. I guess it was said aspirationally or metaphorically, but another word for that would be wrong. And to be clear, that's on me. It's my job to make sure that the people I interview don't end up saying something silly in the final video. Right, 2017, things started getting a little better here. I started finding my style with three years into making these videos. I'm actually starting to fact check things properly. Only one error that whole year, but it's a doozy. From the zero-gravity drop tower in Bremen, Germany. In the first second after release, the drop capsule goes 10 meters. Next second, 20. Next second, 30. Next second, 40. And then we've used a pretty much all the height there is. That is wrong. Yes, the speed increases by 10 meters per second per second. I know it's actually 9.8 something, but like, 10 meters per second is close enough for this. But that doesn't mean it travels 10 meters in the first second, because it's starting at zero and speeding up. It had traveled five meters in the first second, then 15, then 25, and so on. Two separate physicists fact check that script. Zero-gravities really confusing. 2018 then, one error. In the 20th century, more than 200,000 tons of gold were extracted from the rock underneath here. Giant mine, in Canada, produced 200,000 kilos of gold, not tons. They also produced 200,000 tons of arsenic trioxide dust, which is the problem they now have. You can see how I got confused with those numbers. 200,000 tons of gold would be roughly the same amount that the entire world has mined throughout history. So, you know, just slightly out there. 2019, two weird mistakes in the same computer science script. If I wanted to run it on a completely different type of computer, it's a Mac instead of a PC. I can compile it for that CPU instead. Nope, I meant a phone instead of PC. Although, given the recent switch to Apple Silicon, that's probably now true. And we're counting upwards by one on every sixth clock cycle. That's every ninth cycle. It's obvious from the graphics, and I just said the wrong words and didn't notice during the edit. 2020, I know that I said typos non-screen graphics don't count, but when you get the speed of light wrong because you copied and pasted a one into the wrong place, yeah, it counts. The other error is more interesting though. I was talking about the rules on where British programs can break for advert. And the host says, time for a break. Like, it's really clear that's not allowed. There's no other way to read that sentence. That was true back 20 plus years ago when the original version of Millionaire came out. But in 2008, the rules were changed. It's now ambiguous whether that's allowed. The old broadcasting code was still on the regulator site. It wasn't flagged as being replaced. And I just didn't spot that I was using the old version in my script. 2021, skipping over the 18th century Firefighters video that I did a long correction for last year, we have two blunders. Even the big lithium ion setup in Australia that's only caught on fire once so far. Just like that line years earlier about tri-bake class submarines, I just thought I knew what I was talking about and I didn't double check it. The graphics are wrong. Hornstale Power Reserve didn't catch fire. It was the newer Victorian big battery, near G-long. Complete blunder on my part. Sorry to Hornstale team, your battery did not catch on fire. And then a translation mistake. Schuss-Waffen, fire arms, was mistakenly transcribed as Schutz-Waffen, defensive weapons. My transcriber and translator was German, but not Swiss German and that's a pretty easy mistake to make. Honestly, I'm not sure I got it the right way around in this video. 2022, no errors that are still online, but in this video about a chainmail box around a house, I did originally suggest that the chainmail was all hand-linked. The sheets were hand-linked, but those sheets were made by machine. The correction is still up, but for once it was a very brief line that could be easily and cleanly cropped out using YouTube's editor, so I just did that. And then, this year, at least this year so far. Jan and Batia's birth year is 1898, not in 1989, you can see exactly how that happened. And the recent video from the British Library said that, If you want to get a library card here, there will be a short interview about your research and why you can't just pull the books or material you want from your local or university library. Apparently, the formal interview requirement for a reader pass, which I had to go through a few years ago, has now been dropped. There will no doubt be more mistakes, this is probably one in this video, because that would be ironic and it's probably going to happen. When that happens, please remember Hanlon's razor, which says, in short, cock up before conspiracy. You should never attribute to malice what can be adequately explained by stupidity. As for what has been useful for my research, well, NordVPN's Black Friday deal is on. I really do use them a lot while I'm traveling, because being able to tap NordVPN's magic button and pretend that my computer and phone are in only one of around 60 countries is really useful. There are websites that block visitors from certain countries, which is unhelpful. There may be other content you want to access through georescriptions to, just check the terms of service first. And I save money on car rental, because sometimes I can get a cheaper quote if my computer appears to be back in the UK. NordVPN works on 60 devices simultaneously, across Mac, Windows, Linux, Android and iOS, and there's a 30-day money back guarantee. So if you're not sure it's for you, try it anyway. I'm happy to keep endorsing them, because I really do use them. And don't worry if you're watching this later. Whenever you go to nordvpn.com slash Tom Scott, by clicking the link in the description or scanning the QR code, you'll still get the best deal they're currently offering. But if you're on the fence, now's the time to try.