I have a challenge for you. The students weren't quite back from summer break as I arrived at the University of Lincoln, so it was fairly quiet at the Think Tank, the University's business centre, where I met up with Hillary, Dan and Heather who teach at Lincoln's Forensic Science course. Tucked away, behind an unassuming door is the crime scene house, which is where they do some of the hands-on teaching for forensic science students. I was going to have a crime scene to investigate, a break-in and you can watch along, try your own bit of detective work and see if you can spot what I missed. What do we want to do before we go in? Okay, not contaminated scene, yes, absolutely. All right, protective suit, gloves, overshoes and hair nets, and of the rustling of us, donning those protective suits, Hillary told me about one of the most important rules. And so my job is not to solve the crime, my job is to document everything and stuff, so that someone else who's off their side is being robbed. What you get told before you go in and murder, please, anyone there, is it really important? Is it fake plants? That's an aridity in your eyes. But what they think, is that a fake? The decision that you then go on to make. The one thing I know is that you haven't set up a murder scene, which you do, monetisation, faxie, for, there is not for everywhere, but I've done that. Sometimes they do set up murder scenes, complete with gruesome mannequin cadavers, or some students might get taken to an explosive's test facility to look at blast damage. It's not like that's an everyday thing, the same way that's not an everyday thing for crime scene investigators. Most of the time, the students will be in a lecture hall, but there are some exciting parts. In a breadth-free out, completely masks off. Yes, because then we will be able to hear each other and we'll see. Absolutely. So this is the downfall of most CSI programmes. Yeah, and this is the thing that I'm looking at until you're going, well, if you're going to be a mask off. Yeah. Yeah, it's not bad, though. Yeah, it's quite a lean on something. Yeah, it's the friend's ex-scene hop. Before I take on the crime scene in the living room, I've got to learn the very basics. We start in the house as kitchen, with perhaps the easiest bits of evidence to spot. So, yeah, I think I can, I can see the evidence here. Yeah. That one's, that one's pretty clear. Okay. Hold on that. That said, like we've got the smashed glass. Yeah. There's also a very obvious lipstick mark just here. Yeah. And you said, yeah, there's a bike mark. I was saying, yeah, then it bled. There was definitely a third thing to be found in here. And that with a bike mark. Yeah, okay. There's one other thing. If you look at the glass in a little bit more detail, for your friends, possibly. Oh, blood. Yeah, it's just a bit of blood on the edge of the glass. Somebody's broken a bottle and cut themselves on it. Yeah, for some reason. So, it could be just form off the surface. It could be that they are my doing hemisticks. Or it could be. So, this is, this is what we do is we obviously we test that blood. This is an alternative way that we do. This is something called a hemistick. This is what a lot of CSI's would use these. And you just rub the pad against the blood and you add the water and you should turn green. Green is blood. Okay. So, what I'll do is we'll say, let's say we've recorded all of this and we know it's in situ. Yeah. We can start messing around with it a little bit now. So, you've got a bit of blood on the, on the, it has only just occurred to me that this is not real blood. This is fake blood. No, this is real blood. Animal blood. Animal blood. Okay. I'll say, hold on, you have to fake up the blood in the way that reacts to tests. Animal blood is the obvious solution. Yeah. So, so we rub a little bit onto there. Yeah. And then we would just put a little bit, put a little bit of water onto here just to soak it in. Obviously this is, should you see, go green. Yes, it does. Okay. So, we're positive for blood. Like all good fictional CSI's, let's freeze that shot, zoom in and enhance. Definitely green. One of the things I learned here over and over is that forensic science is slow and painstaking and involves a lot of tiny things that don't show up well on camera. Much as Hollywood might tell you otherwise. The other thing we've got of course is the glass itself. Because glass itself will transfer in very, very tiny amounts to the person. To the person. So, if I break a window, you're going to have shards of glass on you. And then we can test that and we can compare it with broken objects. So, studies have been done where they looked at glass mean made over a number of days and they look at the properties and they change quite significantly. And the more obvious things here, we have a bike mark in the apple down there. Yep. And we have over here lip print on the glass, which I assume is as evidence goes, pretty, pretty easy to wait, how do you lift a lip print? Just photons. So, this one you'd be interested in the lipstick itself. Oh, the actual chemical makeup. Because again, cosmetics have kind of variation in the chemical makeup. The number of times I've gone, oh, it's obvious you do with what with that? No, no, it's not. Bike mark, you can look at potentially the teeth, the odotology of it and also sort of for deal. But what of it? Odontology. Odontology. Okay. So, for the teeth positioning. I assume that the bite mark would be the obvious thing there, but it turns out odontology is really controversial. Almost all bike marks are just too vague an impression to be reliable evidence. But there's a much better option swapping for DNA. Apple's are really good, because the skin of the apples like cleans the tooth off quite nicely. Let's find all the cell in the material. Oh, okay. This feels like an obvious joke to make. But how do you do DNA testing for that and not get apple? I thought that was a silly question at the time, but apples have DNA. And so, if you take a swab for DNA sampling from a bike market in an apple and put that in a machine, surely it just says apple. That sounds like a gag from a comedy show. Well, Heather's the DNA specialist there and she was happy to answer that one. We would extract the DNA from the swab and when we do that, it does clean up things like apple or food or things like that. So, it removes that from the sample. And then when it goes on to be replicated, so it's detectable, because usually we're looking at quite low levels of amount of DNA, then that those, that replication is only going to happen on the areas that are human or match the areas that we're looking at. So, it's like a key in lock mechanism. We have primers that are specific to certain parts of the DNA strand. It won't connect if it doesn't fit. Wow. And the reason we've set an apple up here is because sometimes in burglary scenes, burglars like to snack. Well, Heather and I both dealt with cases where they've submitted things like a burger or an apple or a main of something that the burger was open, the fridge, eat and something that left the remains behind, which is brilliant for us because we just want it and get a result, you say. They love to drink beer or alcohol or stuff like that as well, because why wouldn't you? If you're already in, you're already burglary. You've already taken a huge amount of jewelry or electronics. What's one beer? So, they'll sometimes do that. Burgers do weird things. Sometimes. Different parts of the English-speaking world use different words for the thing that burglars do. Some countries say that a house can be burgled. Others say burglarized and both of those sound really weird if you used to the other one. Next up, the bedroom, which had been the subject of what the police would call an untidy search. This is Heather's room. All right. No, it's not Heather's room. That sounded wrong. You know what I mean? So, we're going to start off at the bedside cabinet. Okay. Okay. Well, cigarettes. That's the obvious one. This is presumably a smoker and there's going to be DNA all over that, I'm guessing. Yeah, DNA. Again, also we can look at whether the manufactured ones have any brand logo. Brands, yeah. So then we would, yeah, so these ones obviously are roll-ups. So, they wouldn't have any brands on them. But what we can do is when you make a roll-up cigarette, you obviously lick the seal. Oh, yeah. So sometimes you'll have different DNA on the seal. Then the person who smoked it because somebody could have rolled it and then given it somebody else and smoked it. Like the smoke, because I know tend to smoke either cigarettes or roll-ups. Yeah, so that could indicate that there's two people smoking. So could it be that the owner smokes roll-ups and the burglar smokes make manufactured. Over here we have a dressing table as well. Cosmetics again. Yeah. DNA evidence. We've also got a lip stick. Yeah. So we know that there's a lipstick mark. So that could match the one on the glass in there. Yeah. The odds of a burglar putting on lipstick during a crime are low, but I guess not technically zero. Now onto the bathroom, which was put together by Hillary. I think I can see a little bit of evidence quite early here by the fact there's a knife on the floor. That's, that feels like evidence. Yes, I feel like even an idiot. There shouldn't be a knife in the, in the back. Exactly. What do you think it may have been used for? Pricing open the cabinet. Okay. So why would someone have a locked cabinet in their bathroom? Medicines? Medicines, yeah. So, so the first thing about the knife is that we wouldn't just put that in a plastic evidence bag. Right. Just for the other bottom end stubby's open the foot. Okay, that's that's that special sort of collector. Okay. A weapons tube. Right. The weapons tube has metal caps on it. Gents. So someone can't stab themselves while screwing the lid off. Okay, so it's really good to see what's in the cabinet. Ah, oxycodone. That was a pain killers. Correct. Yes. So we've got those are those right extremely strong pain killers. Yes, and they, they are prescribed, but they also have quite a high street to value. Yes. We wouldn't necessarily assume that that's what it says on the tip. So that's, we would perhaps start from that and check if it was executing, but it could be something else, it could be something that's the misrepresented as oxycodone. We would also be wanting to see what is the name and address on the drugs. Is that related to anyone who lives here? Or it could just be sometimes you find a random person's medication because it's been sold on the street. And we may also want to be looking at the resident. So is the resident positive for oxycodone? The real life drugs in that container are just vitamins or over the counter pain killers, but it turns out that sometimes the forensic students do get to see the real thing. We do have a license here. Yeah. So the students get to as part of their course, we'll get to actually examine. Small amounts. Under supervision, real, real samples so they can actually see how it works when testing in the lab. We'll give them an unknown powder that we've got from Border Force, and they will ask them to tell us what it is. So they do the testing themselves. I was going to ask why you got the drugs from in Border Force, made sense. So okay. Yeah. So and the other thing is sometimes a drug has been mixed with other things. So is less of an issue for tablets as more for powders and crystals. So be looking to see as it been adulterated. So adulterated means something another drug added or it might just be dulled it down with something, you know, tough and powder, brick dust, all those things you might want to put in your body. So that's another thing. And if we have a pattern of adulterance being added, it can help us to link drugs to other scenes or cases. I also can't help but notice there's a lot of red stain in the ground there, which I assume is not relevant to any investigations today. No. But may have been relevant to ones in the past. Oh yeah, we might do a blood bath. Where somebody's been in the bath. Oh, that passed by very quickly. So just to flag it, when Hillary says she makes a blood bath, she is not speaking metaphorically. She means a bath where the water also contains a lot of blood and presumably one of those dead body mannequins they have. Forensic investigation is not for the week of stomach. And I don't want to seem like I'm treating the subject too lightly here. But most of the time, Forensic investigation does not involve drama or death. It is just meticulous work. So that's the three rooms of setup. That's the sort of things that I needed to look for in the lounge was the actual crime scene. And my job now was to be the investigator, to be the naive first year Forensic student. The bits of the investigation you're about to see have been shortened quite a bit because Forensic science is painstaking and slow and requires careful decision making and frankly torturous amounts of paperwork. I actually did two passes around the room first logging everything I could see and then investigating each thing in detail in the order that was least likely to disrupt other bits of evidence, which is a really important decision to make. But we're going to show this as just one pass through. So don't worry if the little yellow Forensic markers seem to move around in the background sometimes. That's not the mystery. Here's your challenge. I missed something at the crime scene house. All the evidence you need to spot it is in the next few minutes of video. The clues are all there and there is a twist at the end right after this. If you're traveling soon and you want to have an internet connection that just works right away when you arrive in another country, let me recommend Saley. This is their headquarters. This is Batas who's the head of product. Hey everyone and all the roaming data on my phone is going through Saley's eSIM, unusing them and it's cheaper than roaming on almost every regular phone plan. If you download the app now while you're watching this video then it'll be ready. Buy a pass just before you take off your destination and your phone will work right after your land. You take it out of airplane mode and it finds the local cell service. Exactly and Saley currently supports more than 200 countries and regions so no matter where you are going we most definitely have you covered. Nicely done. That was smooth. And almost all modern phones will let you keep your regular SIM in use at the same time so you won't miss any calls or texts but all the expensive roaming data goes through Saley's eSIM instead. If you're on the road a lot like I am you might want their ultra plan, an unlimited plan for more than 100 countries. And ultra isn't just a data plan. It's much more than that. We have additional travel perks like airport lounge and fast-track access for you to get through the airport a little bit faster and additional security tools like Norvpn and Northpass that got you covered no matter where you are going. You'll get an extra discount if you use Tom Scott at checkout. Download the app to your phone right now by scanning the QR code on screen or following the link in the description and you can send that I've arrived selfie while you're waiting for everyone else to get off the plane. I think we got that. I think we got that. Nice. Don't worry that Andread was not part of the evidence although in hindsight I could have charged a lot more if it was. Right let's go investigate a break in. Good luck. Let's see if you are a better detective than I am. Now I don't even know what I'm looking for here. I appreciate the book there is great unsolved mysteries which is yeah someone's had too fun. So the way to start to process it is to think about how would somebody do this? Okay and in the process of doing what they're doing what are they going to leave behind that we can find from them? Okay they're going to come in through the window I assume which means they might have left some evidence on here that looks on what like blood. So we might want to use that. I've got a number. I've got right. So number one yeah that's fine. We did a simple test to check and yes it was blood which needed swapping for DNA. Do you want to do it? I'll do that. Yeah if I can hand the camera off to you. So they've pointed in your direction. Yeah. So because the blood is dry you're going to want to wet your swab. Okay. So this is DNA free water because I'll see some water will have yeah background DNA in it. So this yeah no it's just it's just a hell of a phrase so pour on. Yeah it's just just a couple of drops you don't need loads. Swap will sometimes be a little bit that's it there's only a little bit hydrophobic there isn't it? And then you just need to swap up the blood. Oh is it okay? I didn't do a great job on that. It's okay. I feel like I've just destroyed evidence of that. No you've got that signal that's more than enough. Okay that's all you need. That's such a tiny tiny and that'll give you that'll give you a perfect profile. That will be almost guaranteed to give you some fuck. Why? This is this is more than I would get on most blood swabs. Heather has done a lot of lab work for actual criminal investigations. She's the expert in this and I was astonished at just how good the technology is. Just a small amount of blood has quite a lot of DNA less though than like touch DNA which is when you just touch something and leave your DNA then we're able to get DNA profiles from really small amounts of blood. Wow. So when you say profile is that's enough to match a person or is that enough to say it's someone who what can you figure out from that? So we don't look at any DNA features that are off-ina-tipics so code for your hair or your ethnicity. We look at specific areas that vary between individuals quite a lot within the population so there's a lot of variability but they also don't code for anything that we know of. Forensic DNA analysis is not like those companies that go probably has green eyes and a gluten allergy and they're great great great grandads from Algeria. They're testing for what used to be called junk DNA but is now known as non-coding DNA. It's not junk. It's just got a more complicated job than eye color. The DNA database itself continues to be controversial particularly how long the police can keep DNA samples from anyone not convicted. Even just accepting a caution from minor offence in England and Wales means your DNA will be on the database for life. Balancing civil liberties and potential crime solving is always going to be difficult. Turns out there's also a ballistics database, a footwear database and of course a fingerprint database which brings us to the next bit of evidence. What I would tend to do is look around the point of entry. Okay. So how would you imagine getting in? What would you do? I'd have to climb up. So yeah. So if we go around to the start with the outside. Yeah. Okay. I had jumped the gun a little by going straight in and spotting blood. I should have checked the window first. You get the lighting right. You can maybe see marks here. So marks they got marks there as well. Clear fingerprint just there. I placed a marker under the window. There are several techniques for dusting for prints but the base idea is to use very very lightweight powder that will stick just to the oil and gunk left behind by fingerprints and then hands them so they can be seen. So because I'm not very good at dusting for prints I wasn't trained to do it. I'd tend to cheat. Okay. So what we do is I use something called magnetic powder. Yeah. So we've got a little wand here which has a magnet in the end and you can pull this tab and the magnet moves up and down inside. Oh. And then this powder which is black powder. Yeah. That has magnetic material in it. So if I dip it if I put the... Well, black powder like the thing that goes into explosive sort. Oh. As in to carbon, black carbon black. Right. So then you've got the magnet sort of shows you that. And if I pull the magnet away it just drops away. Yeah. So it makes it a lot easier to... That makes a lot easier. And essentially a very fine work of dusting along. And the good thing about the magnet brushes is that you don't get any contamination because there's no bristles to contaminate. Yeah. This is much much more difficult than you might think. Although I didn't realise until later that while setting up the simulated crime scene one of those three had to actually put their fingers and it turns out their entire face against that window to create those marks. I'm definitely not doing that right. That's just no. I've completely messed that up. That's all right. I've completely ruined that. So because this magnetic powder we can just hoover it up. Of course you can. Yeah, I absolutely demonstrated that on purpose. And this is just plain incompetent. And you've got possible possible stuff here maybe. You can just about see something there, let it. Just about once the prints are enhanced you photograph them and also perhaps try to lift them. Essentially what you do is you just roll over the top just to make sure you've got it. Get rid of all the air bubbles because they can be a real pain. And then slowly what I tend to do is just lift it off. And it should hopefully line up over the and all the shins. That's a bit clearer isn't it? And then you see a size watching this. I'll be telling you that my technique is awful. Which I know which I know it is. But it's all about the powder. But you can see you've got this this sort of pattern here. This sort of area here within the within the room. And that might be enough to match your finger print. There were also several other finger prints I missed including a couple of big obvious ones. Never mind I did successfully spot some hairs and clothing fibers caught on the window. Those were marked as number three. And the next bit of evidence would have been difficult to miss. So on the inside, the aldon hold on. I haven't spotted that in the right light. There's a very clear footprint just there. In fact two, one very clear just here. And one faint just here. If I can get number four please. Lighting is important. So I've got a little torch here if you want to see if it might show with a bit of a bleak lighting. Which I'm sure you understand what that is. Yes. Oh yes it does. If you put a few more to four. Further down to the plane or see if it's better. Oh wow. That really does make a difference doesn't it? Just like the fingerprint. Once it's documented in place that can also be lifted from the surface. So we could use something called a gel lift which is kind of like a bit of gelatin and it's slightly adhesive, slightly tacky. So then that will lift the print onto the gel. So you'll see that. But what we're going to do is I'm going to do something called an Esla. Because it's good for dusty prints. An Esla is an electrostatic lifting apparatus. And if you remember that high school science experiment with a vandegraph generator that makes people's hair stand on end, it's that but more precise. Apply a Mylar sheet to the print. Make sure everything's earthed properly. And then the Esla generates a static charge that sucks the Mylar sheet down to the surface. And then you get the roller and what you see the seat, you can see that you see the print almost on there. And then you just roll out any air bubbles to make sure that you've got contact with the print. We literally peel back the film and that's incredible. That's like a magic trick. This is obviously the best possible circumstances. But still to me that was staggering and it might just match up to the suspect's shoes. That's the point of entry done. Time to investigate the rest of the room. I'm going to start with the outside and go around. Yeah, okay. That's cool. I'll leave it to it. I'm just wondering how much you're a fool. I'm about to look as I miss something obvious. Oh, correct. I looked at the little bag that was stopping the door from opening. I looked at the couch, at the lamp, at the walls. There is a couch cushion just sprayed down there, which should be over there. But I don't know if that's it. Is that just someone who's messy? Is it disturbing the scene if I just pick it up and have a look? You would record it and then you can move it. Okay, so you've recorded it. Recorded it? Yeah. I just have a look underneath. Nothing of interest. Nothing of interest. Now just a just a couch cushion. Okay. We'll ignore my GoPro and the security camera. The artwork didn't have anything of interest. I did briefly look at and mark a solitary earring that was left on the side just in case, but no. Turned out that wasn't important. And we have some paperwork. Just notice anything about the paperwork? It's financial paperwork. I've got to remember I don't know anything about this scene. There are all sorts of things that you may or may not know, but quite often you're dealing with limited information and that comes to light as you go through the scene. So, okay, I will I will log that. Do I need to put a number next to it? And that paperwork had a few alterations on it, including some correction fluid or as it's known in the UK, Tipex. That's a zero that's been changed to an eight. And then Tipex on that one. I missed all of those completely. Unless you've stare at that with a torch and someone clues you in that this is what you're looking for. Or you've had a lot of studying and you're an expert in this sort of thing. The different pen is might react in different ways and really lighting conditions. So, we would take the pen and the and the document. Yep. Your wording was really nice. You said altered. So, we wouldn't be looking at that and saying it was being tampered with as fraud because at this point that could they all could be just that could be just a little little little else. Somebody made a mistake. They changed it. So, we wouldn't be trying in that at this point trying to be saying what we think it happened. I poked around the rest of the room, but I've found pretty much everything that the team had put together. I did wonder about a single hair and a glass that was slightly a skew, but again, not actually relevant here. The amount of stuff you have to feel and this is this is a carefully curated planted scene on easy mode for a student. The real world is so much more complicated than this. So, what did I miss and what did you miss? So, we've got a bit of information. It's just come through. That's okay. That's how it. And this is helpful and that we know that the occupant of the house is a non-smoker. Okay. Okay. So, that's another hint you can have a look for things. In this room or just in general? Just in general. I haven't seen any cigarette burns. I haven't seen... Have I seen cigarette ash and completely missed it? You want to come back out to the point of entry. So, if you're unsure how to have a look, how to look on the way up. Oh, the cigarette started. Right, sorry. The studed down cigarette that's by the door. Thank you. Thanks. So, that may or may not be useful. That's, yeah, no, that's not me. I'll, I'll, so it's worth having me think about what kind of evidence you think you might get from that. Oh, that's DNA evidence. Yes, DNA evidence, yeah. Okay, so... Anything less high-tech you might be able to get from... You try turning it over. Oh, the brand of cigarettes. Right, yes. So, it's really interesting with our students because they don't understand cigarettes to have brands because they grew up in age without advertising of cigarettes. Oh, because they're going to a shop, it's all behind. Yeah. There's no sports advertising, so it's not an obvious thing that they would... They would check for the word Mayfair. Prinsed on that cigarette. Yes. Did you spot it? Not the cigarette. But I mean, not quite the cigarette. I mean, the twist. Let's just do the wrap-up first. That was the crime scene, a very, very simple simulated crime scene. What I learned mostly is that forensic science ain't like the TV shows. And we want these to be realistic, so they want to be watching the telly. Don't know it. They come in and do their first crime scene, and it's not quite what they anticipated. It's like how Jurassic Park caused a whole generation of paleontologists. Yeah. CSI has done the same. It's not real. It's not real. It's not real. It's a very different experience, I would say. It's painstaking, detailed work. Yeah, it's painstaking, detailed work. I mean, the things that we've shown you today, so things like the trace evidence, like the glass and all those sorts of things, are not done as much these days. Yeah. Because of budgetary constraints and the police focus on more things like CCTV and stuff like that. So there is a risk in the UK, and I mean, we're going to lose some of our traditional forensic science capability. It is funny that he mentioned CCTV there because my editors noticed something when they were going through the footage for this. It's only visible very briefly in a couple of shots, but you know that cigarette that I missed? I didn't miss it. It wasn't there. Is it too much to put like oceans 11, highest music over the rest of this? In their defence, this was clearly a mistake. This was not a deliberate attempt to mess with me. I don't want them to look bad or feel bad about this. I just think it is quite funny. We started early in the morning, and presumably they'd set the crime scene up the night before, which means that they only noticed the cigarette was missing when I was already in the room. I'm just well aware of how much I reform about to look as I miss something obvious. The cleaners must have come by, and while they've been told not to disturb inside the crime scene rooms, that cigarette stub was not in the crime scene rooms. You can see in this shot, the only shot that I have of that entrance before I walked in that the cigarette wasn't there. I don't have a shot of anyone running back to the bedroom to grab a Mayfair stub, but I can only assume that's what happened, and then while I was looking the other way, there is a couch cushion just displayed down there. Almost out of sight of the cameras, professionally done. It's not until several minutes later. Quite often you do the limited information, and that comes to light as you go through the scene. Which means that when I made it back around to the entrance, oh the the cigarette stub, right, sorry, the stub, the cigarette that's by the door. Thank you. That may or may not be useful. That's, that's, yeah, no, that's, that's on me. My thanks and my apologies to everyone at the crime scene house. The story was just too good to tell any other way, and in my defense you could have told me, congratulations if you spotted the twisted home, if you're less like me, and more like my editors, then perhaps forensic science at the University of Lincoln might be for you. Next time, or right now on Nebula, I join a rescue team for an exercise that could have been made so much worse.