My road trip across every county of England has reached Nottinghamshire. I was into the former industrial heart of the East Midlands now, and while the coal mines may all of close down, the legacy lives on. In the town of Mansfield Woodhouse, there's a company called MRS Training and Rescue, but that MRS speaks of a much older history, going back more than a century to the mines rescue service. And hidden underneath the unassuming brick building are the galleries, a basement that can simulate all sorts of mining disasters. A few minutes after arriving, I was already shooting up, because, despite having no experience and very few relevant skills, I was going to join a training exercise. The Skateboard hospital in Pimenters, sort of, we have one person missing. The briefing said that there had been an explosion and collapse, an old mine, one where there's remediation work going on. High levels of carbon monoxide and a lot of unknowns, including the location of one missing person, Nathan. Like blasts, it's mere result that it further down to the carbonation system. And as we already know, the road is in bad state and pan and places, so you'll have to be very careful. This exercise was filmed as if it were real. We weren't stopping and starting to get retakes. There wasn't a director saying, can we do this again? It was me and my camera, and we were going for it. After the initial briefing, it was time to check our equipment. Charge your set, we are. OK? OK. So front off. On your pop it back in, make sure the drain on your back cover is up or most, still, if you want to move so what to come out. Out, that was forage. So like this. That's straight in there. Straight in there. That ice is to keep the air I'm breathing cool. We're using closed circuit breathing apparatus called a BG4. It's not like scuba gear where you're just breathing from a tank. There is some oxygen being added, but mostly the exhale there is going through a scrubber and a cooler to take the carbon dioxide out and make it safe to breathe again. Also, that's Liam there. He was basically my guardian angel that day. Not part of the exercise, but making sure that the amateur here doesn't get hurt. Make sure it's all secured. Check. Check. Check. Check. Check, check. That's all right. Yeah, go up it. Yeah. How are you? No rush, no pressure, you're doing well. I was mostly looking at what the experience people were doing with their breathing apparatus. Their BA, and I was doing the same. I'm sure they knew all the checklists by heart, but they were still going through that checklist together. One item at a time, because one of the things I learned here was you don't take anything for granted. Middle of your set round. Now go to your hoses again. Make sure all three antichrush rings are in position, are present and correct. Start to extend your hoses, checking there's nothing missing misplaced, broke nor damaged. There's no splits. Some of those checks might seem a little odd out of context. Check your signaling device work. Yep. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Should we do that? Check. But if you're trapped in the pitch black, noise all around you, you do not want to find out that the seemingly minor thing that you now need to work is actually broken. I did get quite a lot to help there, including with all the complicated things like reading the air pressure on the BA. So that is to check that there's no leaks in the system. Yep. So that's all there's no leaks in the system. And this part now is to check that the whistle falls to actually the works as well. Right. So you're seeing a second. It's about 55. Right. You'll see it starts flashing and also whistling as well. Oh, making that noise. And that's if there's not enough pressure like exactly. Wow, that's loud. The prep took about 10 minutes. Even in a real emergency, they would not be rushing those checks. You're on oxygen now. You're on the closed circuit system. I'll pass. A scuba tank would last you half an hour, maybe an hour. It'll depend on how much oxygen you're using. And mine rescue is going to be using a lot. The rebreather set gets you anything up to four hours. It weighs 16 kilos, about 35 pounds. And it was surprisingly comfortable because it has to be. So breathing gear on, medical bag and supplies with one of the team, although they're all qualified first aiders anyway, down into the basement mine. Captain for the exercise is Derek, who's got a lot of experience with this. When you do get a call and it does happen and it's usually the minute you do not expect it, you've got the police, call authority or somebody else, mining remediation authorities there are now. Bringing us into a situation, it could be anywhere in this country. There's over 270,000 abandoned mine entries in the UK, and so we can be here and we are anywhere in the country. Later on, Derek showed me the inside of one of the emergency vans. MRS has contracts with industry around the country, not just mines, but anywhere that's confined spaces. And if the alarm goes off, the team that's on call will drop everything, get to the van and go out to save lives. The former mine's rescue service might be a private company these days, but one of their jobs is still emergency response. 31 years on the ground, I've wore a close circuit breathing apparatus. The one before you've wore today, you've draged your BG4 for 28 years. So yeah, 28 years. I came down here as a seven-year-old kid when we were, when we'd had my mind, my dad was a, a minor, a mine's rescue guy, and I just followed my dad into mining. And 31 years later became, you know, an underground worker, Coldface supervisor, a production overman, a squadter, high-end job. But I was sort of becoming to the world of part-time rescue engagement in the mid-90s. So yeah, seemed like a lifetime of a minimal last. We're going to split the narrative. Now, after the exercise was done, Derek and I headed down into the galleries again, with the lights on to talk about what had been through. So you're going to see the whole exercise from two very different perspectives now. The exercise itself, chaotic, dark, confusing, more or less what I saw. And then, walking through what seems with the lights on to be just a regular basement, and I promise you, in that smoke-filled darkness, it did not feel like that. We lined up at the FAB, the fresh airbase, me at the back, Derek checked for heat sources behind the door, and in we went. Now, if I had up-to-date working at height training, we might have descended down a tight vertical access shaft, or even from scaffolding at height down into that shaft. But as it was, we started by taking the easy route in. So once we go past this point, what we've got? You've got the smoke. That's a bit different, isn't it? It's the... where's your... Yeah, I'm here. So we came along here with a team. Where we travelled, we came up here. Did we? Yeah, you're 10 feet away. Yes, I'm in that zone. I'm in that zone. 10. Good work, we're in. We're going to be part of the... We're just in part of it. It's impossible. Come back to the night. Hold on, hold on. Stop, stop. The smoke and darkness meant I couldn't see far, and the cramped space meant that most of my vision was blocked by the other team members. Headlamps are the only source of light down there, and they were just piercing beams through the haze. Also, you can't see my face in movies and TV shows. If someone's wearing a mask or a space helmet or something like that, they will be perfectly lit. They'll put lights in the suit so the audience can see their face. If you do that in real life, whoever's wearing the mask just sees that own face reflected back at them, hopefully you'll be able to work out from context, which one of those people is me. I was at the back there, but there was a round metal door with a hand wheel on it, just under a meter across with a cable tunnel behind. The team was trying to open it, but they couldn't. It was jam-shut, which, for my sake, was probably for the best. Because we're initially would have perhaps utilised that. Yeah. Because they closed it, you know the Greek village E4 system, we have on our back. Yeah. We would really call that. We would call that reduced dimensions. That's one way I put it. Yeah, so to go through that, you don't actually, and there's a process you have to train every year for that, we take the set off as a team, put it in front of you, and we put you through that, and then there's a way of actually manning like handling that back on. To be fair, we decided away from that. Thanks, that's because it didn't do much. This exercise was on easy mode because of me, but with a mask on, a 16 kilo backpack and chaos all around, didn't feel like it, they could have made this far worse, and for the mine rescue trainees, they do. So we might even look at anchor points, we might run through here and pull people through, so we're testing competence all the time. And if we're in a little bit north, we can also fill this full of water. So put the smoke in and water, get you wet, uncomfortable, melting, groaning, we've looked after you today. I didn't think about it. I don't want to sort of be that cruel, so this can be filled with water as well. Since that pipe was closed off, we had to take another route. It looks like the access into the actual chamber was something on the door. It's impossible, we're going to have to go through the back and cable tunnel. All team members fit well, all right. That last call, all team members fit and well. That's important. Derek would ask each of us, are we fit and well, and what's the oxygen level in our breathing apparatus? And he'd write it down so he can monitor it over time. So every 15 minutes maximum, I was getting engaged reading, because what I don't want you to do, anyone to do, is have an issue with the set. So if I see the massive plummet in your set, I start thinking, you're the priority, we're the priority, start going back to FAB. Yeah, because it can help me, you can have a set fail, you can have something leaking. You don't want to have more casualties to get a maximum of teams of priority. This is why they don't rush the checks. They might save five minutes on getting in, but they don't want to be five kilometres into a mineshaft, and then have to go back or worse, have a second emergency, because of broken or forgotten kit. So what's your got made? Well, it's very tempting. So it's working well. It's working well. Not glad. Well, we've got to be left to be weird, guys. This is impossible. That's where we are, are we? I don't get in. We're going to go through cable tunnel vacate. I know, right? Watch out for some ideal start engine service, a little bit tired. Stop with it, come across an A-fan. All right? So we've came along here, and then you've got what we call a top and bottom roadway. All right, I've found. I've found. So this is the top roadway. As you see, it grades off in the top, and you really do have to get flat. It's really hard to get through that with any B-A on, with any breathing effort. Yes, you've got a massive backpack on. Massive. Right. 16-kilogram system on your bike. It's quite, you know, heavy and complex. So we went for the safe option. We went through what we call the bottom cable tunnel. I'm going through the bus and cable tunnel now. Everybody's got to work. The most low-side of length and that low. The tunnel felt long, much longer than it actually was. I'd like to think I'm not unfit, but it's an avian environment. It's dark, it's hot, it's hazy, it's disorienting, and I've got 16 kilos on my back. I was in the middle of the group there, Derek leading the way with Mark at the back. They don't use radios within the group. That's what the bubble is, hand whistles for. There's quite a few passive supports, so I'd say wooden props. Right. There, so we had to make sure they were safe and sound before we went through. Right. So, I'm communicating back to Mark. Yeah. Five, which means five whistles raise awareness. Four means advance. Right. If I came across an obstruction, I'd give Mark a free and he'd lead you out. So that's why we kept advancing, because that's what the five and the four came from. And the whistle signals are really clear. Very impenel. What's going on? I'll be a minute or two more inside. That tunnel, which means we can take a brief diversion. I'm going to do something that very few people on YouTube have done before. Actually visit NordVPN in person. I've been using NordVPN for years, and I'm very happy with them. They'll let your computer, phone, and tablet pretend that they're in any one of more than 100 countries by bouncing your connection through one of their many, many servers. And this is NordVPN's headquarters, and this is Marius, who is NordVPN's chief technology officer. Hi. When I'm using NordVPN, can you see what I'm doing online? We don't like anything, and we have independent tests to prove it. Maybe you don't want your internet provider to track every site that you visit. Maybe, like me, you are traveling, and websites keep diverting you to their local version or even block you entirely. Maybe you are overseas, and you want to still watch your home streaming services or get around badly designed content restrictions. We've had independent tests done, and we are the fastest VPN. We move around 70 terabytes of data every second. Also, we can block malware and fix sites. 70 terabytes a second. Yes. They've also got a 30-day money back guarantee. They've got 24-7 tech support, and they are the VPN that I actually use day-to-day and have done for years. Scan the QR code, or click the link in the description to go to nordvpn.com slash Tom Scott, and you'll get the best deal they're currently offering. That's nordvpn.com slash Tom Scott. Right, I was finally out the tunnel. With four whistles, we were clear to go ahead. So we managed to get to the other end where we came out, actually, was at the far end of the cable tunnel. We popped out here. Derek then checked the charging wall, the rock face to make sure any explosives being used were earthed and safe. But I had no idea about that because there was so much going on. You want to hear anything? We can know all this is going off here. Yeah. You've got this bad boy here throwing smoke at, yeah? That's all that's here. Smoke machines. So something been around there with a remote going squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Also Liam had another hand held device. Yeah. We can top it up, but again, it's just a case of tweak for use, so you can see what I'm saying. And that looks like an orange strobe up there. Yeah, is that for fire simulation? Yeah, it's a simulate fire. Right. Noise stress, flashing lights. Yeah, that went off. We did that off the light. It's going to reach there. Just to make it more stressful. When we were doing the, this is safe, something went around there. And I'll do it now. I give you more stress. I was looking through here because it was arcing out on this light here, this light system. That's in the tank. I'm so flashing. Yeah. So really what's that indicator? They've got a potential live electrical feed which is common contact with a methane that's been released through the fall of ground. And that's caused the explosion blast. But unfortunately, the power was still on. I'm thinking because of the flashing strobe in light. So until I said back to FAB, please confirm that the power is isolated. If you haven't have isolated power, we would have gone out and teamed to would have come back. But because it's successfully said power is now off. I can confirm the power is off. Then you can assess it then. Let's go again. Then we start going under these archers. Now these steel archers, what we would call rings and cubitins. I've basically no memory of this. So what? No, you want to see it? So again, this is, although it's an old type of support, very effective support. So yeah, because what you're doing when you come through here, you're looking for any supports that have been knocked out through a blast. I'm assessing that and feeding it back to FAB. So if you look at the roof here, there's proof that there was proof that we used to set life fires in here. So you can see all the carbon in the roof. So that's all life fire. This is ultimately, wow. Proper smoke in BA and back in the day when I came through the length, this would be set on fire. I can assure you. So obviously through risk assessment and everything else that went with it, we sort of make things a little bit. It's like safe and out. They used to set the basement on fire and they can still simulate it with strobes and thicker smoke. I did say something that in hindsight was a bit foolish that you'd have the smell of smoke, but you wouldn't. Would it mean a positive pressure system as well, though Tom? Any leads you can leave out? Go out. What is doing? You're going to start embering your oxygen supply. That's why I'm checking you every 15 minutes. Because if you start plummeting, we've got 55 bar to get back. Oxygen's getting out. Exactly. So I do a blow any contaminants away. Yeah, but that's a real important bit to get in a decent seal. Yeah. Closed circuit breather means closed circuit. Now the folks planning the exercise today knew that no matter how much they threw at the team and at me, the final video was probably going to be about the same length. So they did skip past a couple of obstacles. That they might put in for a full four hour long exercise. And we usually blot this road way off with ventilation tubes, really small ones. You might have been going through that today and we can build walls and put what we call an explosion proof stopping on. So again, we might be doing that in a mine. So today we're sort of tepid simple as the guard checking passive support. So when I say passive support, I mean something to do with prop. Those wood props were holding up the roof or at least they were simulating holding up the roof. Big long sticker wood and then a pair of wedges at the top. Hammered in from the sides to add pressure and keep everything hopefully safe. We've got a prop out here. Let me come to you guys to send me a prop while we wait here. So what we had to do is get a team to sort a check route, roof condition, dress any falling ground and obviously set this passive support to enable us to go through. Step back. That's what you need to do. That's what we need to do. Get some weight on it. Weight on. Walk that 50 mm and you'll never walk in there. I don't know why. Yeah. But once we get in here, we start to hear the casualty Nathan, mowning and groaning. Nathan, can you hear me? Oh, I'm not moving. Right. Tash off the wrong side of the hopper, right? Great. We found Nathan. We just needs to get through a collapsed hopper with some rock fall. But again, they could have made this more difficult. We'll fill that hopper full of stone. So it's as realistic as you can get as regards to burying somebody, which you won't want to do. So what you can start doing is dropping debris into you. So again, it's putting people as much as you can but safely. Yeah. Risk assesses. So as I clamber through to which felt unpleasant as it was. Yes. You might have been dropping more rocks on me. Come on a good week where this has been set up for hot new humidity. So we don't want to bury you in order to get you through then. Make sure you're safe. We all had full breathing gear on. Suddenly, one of us might have been caught and buried under rock fall. And one of the things that was repeated over and over like with the oxygen checks is that our safety comes first. Even if we can hear the casualty, we check everything first. We go slowly because right now there is one casualty. And the situation is going to get a hell of a lot worse if we have to be rescued as well. As we went, Derek was also checking things called telltales. They're bolted into the mine while everything is stable. And if the roof or anything else moves, that'll expose different parts of the telltales and actors are warning that things might not be as steady as they seem. Green would be good. That hotel room has no movement above the roof bolted high. But because all the green section is gone, it's telling me the roof is unsafe. And in some of the mines we may visit, again, training competence. I'm familiar with that. People coming through it aren't. So we brought this into the training. We made it through the hopper arrangement and we got to Nathan. We needed to do two things. Secure Nathan and secure the roof. So if everybody that came through and would have just worked on Nathan, we're at high risk. Nathan has got a broken leg. His atmosphere is breathing, is okay. Right. So we can leave him there for now. We can address this. I couldn't help with Nathan because I'm not a first-aid yet. But I could help with the roof. So while he was screaming and they're giving him oxygen and splinting up a broken leg, I was helping put another prop up. My shift. My accent, I've got a lot more knotting him, sure, by that point. Because I spent a good bit of my childhood around there. I was picking up cues for everyone around. All patterns in my brain were coming back. That wasn't a sledgehammer I was picking up. It were a sledgehammer. Also, full marks to Nathan's acting. He was doing a very good job of playing the role of man with broken leg, who's in severe pain. His injury was treated a lower leg fracture closed. So no blood. Thank you. That was a mobile line. Thank you. Yeah. They did ask in advance whether YouTube monetization would be okay with larger amounts of fake blood. Because they could have mocked up a compound fracture or something even nastier and the team would have no idea until they got there. They got Nathan in what's called the patient packaging system, kind of a flexible stretcher. I finished helping with the prop. I like you know one swan there, one of way out, mate. We were laying all this information still during the GFCHX every 15-15 minutes because if anyone's rocked off, Nathan's left simple. And in the manner of all good stories, the return journey was a lot faster. The impossible blockages could be easily cleared from the other side because whoever put the exercise together understands how narrative works. And Nathan had a fairly smooth trip out. Look what the hell, oxygen last stop, mate. One, six, four, fit them well, good luck. Yeah, two, six, four. Oh no, no, no, no, no. George, what are you? Yeah, five, four, fit them well. We'll make them five. And then top stock. One, six, five, fit them well, captain. I used more oxygen than anyone, apart from the two people who were logging the casualty and doing the heavy work. Yeah, I'm the only one who ain't not literally dripping in sweat. So, yeah. That tells me you clever. Next time, or right now on Nebula, a visit that goes into the Uncanny Valley and out the other side.