I think we made it to Margarita, Veal! I don't have you! So, you clicked on the video thinking, is this guy really gonna go to every Margaritaville in the country? Well, technically, that title is a lie. Because I'm going to every Margaritaville in the country AND CANADA! Margaritaville, a tropical beach-themed restaurant chain created by America's greatest singer-songwriter, James William Buffett, aka Jimmy Buffett. Now, if you don't know who Jimmy Buffett is, let me catch you up before we hit the road. Hi, I'm Jimmy. Jimmy Buffett is a multi-platonom artist who's been touring the world since the 1980s. But think of Jimmy less as a musician and more like royalty. Because this man has built an empire in the last few decades by not just writing tropical country-style songs, but by creating a world around his music. And no song has built that empire more than Margaritaville. Margaritaville is a simple tune created by Jimmy in the late 70s that then inspired the creation of his restaurant, Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville. As the business started to thrive, they made Margaritaville shirts, shot glasses, key chains, and other merch until they expanded to Margaritaville hotels and resorts across the globe. But the restaurant that started it all is the official Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville. There are 22 locations in the United States and Canada with one in development in Boston, Massachusetts. And we will be hitting every single one. Last year, Ted Nivason and I went to every single rainforest cafe in the country. There were 18 total locations and it took us three weeks to do it. The trip also nearly drove me insane. So you must be thinking what kind of moron would go on such a pointless road trip, not in Juliet, and then decide just one year later to do another, even longer, pointless road trip. The night before we started our trip across the entire United States for 24 days, we decided to go to the first Margaritaville. The closest one located to us is the one at City Walk at Universal Studios Hollywood. City Walk is just an outdoor mall in front of the theme park, but you might recognize it from Justin Bieber's famous music video, Baby. And I can't tell you what kind of honor it was to start this journey where Luda Chris himself told us that when he was 13, he had his first love. As we headed toward the restaurant, I was getting increasingly nervous because this trip is even longer, so I was about to find out what I was dedicating a 12th of my year to. After finally arriving, we were greeted almost immediately by the Margaritaville sign. And I could not have guessed what was inside. Jimmy Buffett's likeness plastered across the entire restaurant. Jimmy's music was playing on the speakers. There was Jimmy themed food, Jimmy drinks. There was a giant Jimmy Buffett's Margarita blender. There were even screens playing Jimmy video at the table. It began to dawn on me that this restaurant wasn't named after just one song Margaritaville that Jimmy Buffett made. This entire restaurant was occult, dedicated to everything Jimmy Buffett. They even had my favorite Jimmy Buffett quote on the wall. Pour me something tall and strong. This doors to remain unlocked during business hours. As we were seated, we were given the absolute honor of sitting at the boat table. Boat, boat, boat, boat, boat, boat. Now the boat table was interesting because it's a table that looks like a boat. But finally, it was time for the moment of truth. The menu. I was about to find out what 22 meals of the next 24 days of my life would look like. And to my surprise, it actually wasn't that bad. On our last trip, I was shocked to find things like mojo bones, boom, boom sauce, icky's, piggy sandwich, and more. But this menu looked pretty normal other than the fact that the names of the items were themes to Jimmy Buffett songs that I didn't know. For my drink, I ordered the perfect Margarita and as somebody who loves Margaritas. I feel like that name is a little too confident. And after tasting it, I was correct. Perfect Margarita? Jimmy, I might want to call this the just okay Margarita. Now that's above it burned. The group got some onion rings as an appetizer and as we waited for our entrees, we were just having a good time. I did notice that there was a stage in this restaurant. It looks like it's fully prepared for live music, but it was completely empty for us. So I'm kind of wondering what that's all about. For my entre, I decided to start my Margaritaville marathon with a cheeseburger and paradise. Which I believe is Jimmy's second biggest song. The burger was exactly what you'd expect out of a chain restaurant. I also need to stress that we are not being paid by Margaritaville on this trip, so as this journey progresses, I will be criticizing Margaritaville the whole way. But Jimmy, if you're watching this, I do take bribes. So our first dinner experience was exactly what you'd expect out of a chain restaurant. The food and drinks were just okay, but it was a dinner with a bunch of friends where we were just having drinks and hanging out. So I had a blast, but that fun was cut short because it was time to say goodbye. Ted and I officially sealed our fate with a handshake because tomorrow we begin one of the most pointless journeys of our entire lives. So I woke up this morning with a stomach ache. I think it was almost definitely the Margaritaville food because I had nothing but a breakfast sandwich that morning and then the cheeseburger and paradise and two perfect margaritas. Completing this Margaritaville trip will mean that I've done two tours and I've already experienced my first casualty. My tummy. My tummy hurts. I have a tummy ache. I really hope my tummy doesn't hurt most days of the trip. My tummy hurts. You guys don't know how hard it is to be a YouTuber. So the plan for the first day was to drive from LA to Phoenix because the next Margaritaville on our trip was the one in San Antonio, Texas. Now last year we took Ted's 2002 Toyota Tacoma across the country. And it, um... Ted is over there with the Tacoma as it gets loaded on to a tow truck. So this year to avoid ruining Ted's car for good we decided to rent a new word Tacoma. And I'll be honest, Ted was in denial quite a bit. It's not squeaking. It's fine. I feel like I'm hearing a squeak right now. This is too clean. The tires are fine. I have ears like a dog so maybe it might be dog whistle. I think it might be tonight's. So for the second and final time we hit the road again. Over 9,000 miles, 22 restaurants, and 24 days on the road. 24 days of my life for Margaritaville. One thing Ted and I immediately realized while driving was that we did not get a truck cover for the rental. And you can't just have your stuff out in the open for rain or for somebody to steal. We decided to go with camos so people wouldn't see our valuables in the truck bed. They would assume there was just a nice little forest back there. Finally it was time for bed. We had completed the first day of our new journey. But not before we experienced the smoothest and quietest elevator ride of my entire life. Jesus. Day 2, the plan for the day is to drive from Phoenix to El Paso. I went for a quick run in the morning and then I hopped into my favorite elevator. Once again we hit the open road and I got to say as someone who's been pretty busy lately it's been really nice to just drive and not think about it. What is that? What is the thing? Sorry, as I was saying it's just good to get out there and hit the open road. Is that another of the things I'm? Okay there are a lot of the things signs and we need to stop for gas anyway so I guess we'll pull off and see it. I would never be able to guess though what was in store for me behind those doors. In front of us was an entire museum dedicated to the what if scenario of if aliens had come to earth while dinosaurs were here. Now I didn't know you could make an entire museum off of a hypothetical scenario but apparently the aliens had come to teach the dinosaurs technology and they... They were there to teach them technology until a war broke out between the aliens and the dinosaurs. The war got to a point where eventually the aliens had to click a big button and send a meteor hurtling towards earth and the exhibit didn't stop there. It told us about all the hypothetical secrets of our history. What if the aliens were a part of World War II? What if they drove around Winston Churchill in a car? And what if... what if 9-11? Are we implying what I think that we're implying here? What if Ted did it? Finally it was time for the main event. The thing Ted and I inch toward it terrified of what this secret would hold and what it would mean to our lives. And I was shocked to find that it was just some paper mache fake skeleton thing. And not only that, the guy who said he found the things name was Binkley? Number one rule in life. I'm not listening to anyone named Binkley. Day 3 and it is time for Margaritaville Number 2. Ted and I spent most of our day crossing about halfway through Texas until we finally arrived at the San Antonio Riverwalk. We actually came here last year and I just like the spot a lot. It's a very beautiful place in the city. So we finally located our second Margaritaville and met up with our friend Schlatt who would be joining us for this meal. Now this being my second Margaritaville ever, I was actually surprised that it looked somewhat similar to the one in City Walk. But it also had like a Texas twist to all of the theming. Immediately when we sat down I spotted this quote on the wall and I had to know where it was from. Turns out it's from one of Jimmy's songs called Who's the Blonde Stranger? Where the main character of the song vacations in Texas with his wife then proceeds to cheat on her with a blonde stranger while she's getting over a sunburn. But when he wakes up hung over he finds that she's also cheating on him with a different blonde stranger named Dan. Is this important to the overall trip? No. Is it important to me that you knew this? Yes. Anyways, I ordered the fish and chips. Margaritaville has so much fried fish and shrimp on the menu that I thought I should definitely try their fish and chips because it must be a flagship dish for them. As we waited for our food I ordered a watermelon margarita that was way too sweet. I also mentioned a stage at the last Margaritaville where it looked like live music could be played. That was happening here which was kind of nice to hear just somebody play live music in a chain restaurant. Finally my fish and chips arrived and these look like frozen fish flakes do you right? Hey, I caught those other my mice away. I know. They tasted okay and we had a fun time just chatting and drinking over dinner. We seem to be in the most Texas corner of the entire restaurant. It had the two things that Texas is famous for. Cattle and a big old puddle next to your table. When you see a big old puddle you know you're in Texas. After finishing dinner we decided to stroll around the even bigger puddle the San Antonio River but not before Ted gracefully took a seat in this big Margaritaville chair. And honestly after it was just a really nice time strolling around this area I remember liking this last year but for some reason I associate it with something negative. And I can't quite put my finger on what it was but honestly I'm having such a good time that it doesn't even matter anymore. Alright I think it's time to head to bed for the night. Okay day four of the trip and we're headed from Austin Texas to New Orleans, Louisiana. And as we made our way across Texas we decided to stop at Bucky's. If you're unaware of what Bucky's is it is a chain of absolutely massive gas stations. It is chaotic in there but people love it. They make their own food inside, they have their own merch. People lose their mind for Bucky but to be honest he kind of creeps me out a little bit. And some of these Bucky's are so big, busy and frantic that as a child you could easily get lost. Bucky's nuts. Ted up. Did I say child because I meant adult. I have lost Ted. I am not freaking out and Bucky doesn't scare me but yeah where is Ted? I can't find Ted. All I can find is everything Bucky's. Bucky's rubbed. Bucky's nuts. Bucky's pillows. Bucky's blankets. Bucky's onesies. This place is so big I'm never gonna find him. I'm gonna be stuck in this Bucky's forever. I'm gonna have to move in with Bucky's gonna be my roommate. Where is Ted? Oh he's just the checkout aisle. Oh crisis averted. We also ran into this dude Braden who had met us last year while we were on the trip for the Rainforest Cafes because he watches our videos. What are the odds that we see the same guy in a different part of Texas one year later for this trip? After our stop at Bucky's we drove all the way to New Orleans. No Margaritaville this night so we went out on Bourbon Street and had some drinks in a good time. I didn't record a lot because I just wanted to focus on relaxing and having a good time so we will see you tomorrow. Hitting the road today is special because for the first time on the trip Ted and I are headed to stay at our first Margaritaville hotel. This one was in Baloxie, Mississippi and we were shocked pulling into the parking lot. Before us was a massive building right on the water of the Gulf of Mexico. But Ted needed the room to get some work done so I decided to explore and see what this whole place was all about. And as I headed up the escalator in the main part of the building I was met with one of the largest arcades I've ever seen in my life. They had everything, rock climbing, zip lines, bowling and even the globally known and incredibly popular game Stinky Feet. Apparently this place used to be a failed Margaritaville casino that was converted into a family resort which would explain the giant arcade floor. And as I explored a bit more and saw a pool and a theme park attached. I started to realize just how many Jimmy Buffett quotes echoed throughout the halls. They were on screens, in elevators, near the pool. I caught people talking about Jimmy to each other and to me. The quotes were all about living his lifestyle and it started to feel like I booked a one night stay into a Jimmy Buffett cult. After that I met up with Ted to go to dinner which was located above the arcade next to the volcano rock climbing wall. The menu was different here with a flaming crawfish dip that Ted and I really enjoyed. And I didn't really want another fried meal but this was Mississippi and they had a catfish platter so I went for it. And it was pretty good but I really should have listened to my gut on this one because this fried food so frequently is starting to kill me. Then suddenly, an alarm went off. The room turned red and the volcano began to smoke. Like that time Justin Bieber used a smoke machine on his fans. It continued on for a while until the smoke stopped and this happened. What the fuck is that? What the fuck is that? Get me! Then after our meal we hit the arcade. All right Ted, go easy on him. Ted, go easy on him. And just before the whole thing closed I played one final game of the world famous Stinky Feet. The thing is you need two players to play Stinky Feet and Ted was busy on another game so I charged my card twice and decided to play by myself. When a child no older than four walked up grabbed the water gun and started playing next to me without saying a word. And after a fierce battle I won. I beat the child. I am the king of Stinky Feet. Today started with a lunch at the Margaritaville in Destin, Florida. Now this Margaritaville was directly on the water. Unlike say the one at Universal City Walk this one was not themed to be on a beach. It just actually was on a beach. Our lunch here was going to be my first of two Margaritaville meals in the day. I got an uptown Margarita even though I'm getting pretty tired of having sweet cocktails so often and also got the jerk salmon. The drink was fine and the salmon was actually pretty good especially after a bunch of days of fried and road trip food. The view of our meal also featured a bunch of weird boats. That was just really fun for me to see a lot of boats that looked like they're not supposed to be on the water. We then paid the check and got ready to drive just an hour and a half before we had another Margaritaville meal in Panama City Beach. The PCB location was at this boardwalk area called Pier Park. And even though it was a little bit cloudy this location was right on the water and beautiful yet again. Which was a great distraction because the last thing I wanted to do an hour and a half after my last meal was to eat a meal at the same restaurant in a different location. The interior was pretty big and elaborate compared to some we had seen. But the place was super busy so Ted and I opted to sit at the bar. I was still so full from the salmon but I decided to get a chicken quesadilla for my food and a Ruby... what the fuck was it called? A Ruby Red Renegade for my cocktail. Why did I choose it? Because the name of the vodka in it was called Deep Eddy and that's my name. So I got it. Even though we were both full and exhausted at least Ted and I had a perfect view of a very blue tinted TV screen that exclusively showed Jimmy Buffett's Instagram posts and boy does this guy know how to post. You had to kind of squint to see what the pictures were because the tint of the TV screen was so blue but this guy's post in feet for free. Jimmy you are a celebrity you can charge for those puppies. Then we headed to the beach to see the sunset and wow this was absolutely beautiful. I had a great time wiggling my toes in the sand and staring at the sunset. But you don't get to see my toes because you didn't pay me. In the last six days we had driven over 35 hours and over 2,000 miles. And my stomach was absolutely full of two margarita veal meals. But either way I couldn't deny that this trip had brought me to such a beautiful spot. Ted and I were even lucky enough to see dolphins out there swimming in the water. I don't think the dolphins saw us but if they did and are watching this you saw my toes for free and you owe me money. The drive today was a big one going from Panama City Beach to Hollywood Beach, Florida. And I'll be honest it was pretty taxing. Not only was it a nine hour drive but we had multiple stretches of heavy rain. Well I'm from Florida and the rain isn't such a big deal shut up. Okay shut up and go tell Mickey Mouse. I do not care. Rain is slippery and slippery is dangerous. We got to the margarita veal hotel completely exhausted. This was another massive building. It featured a chandelier of margaritas and what seemed to be a Jimmy Buffett museum lining the hallway. The restaurant was attached to the hotel so we sat down exhausted and starving. Now this menu was a bit classier than other locations. We ordered a shrimp ceviche and poke nachos. Both were pretty good unlike my ginger margarita which was not great. But my entree, the lemon tahini bowl, made this the best meal we had so far. Turns out the best meal you could have at margarita veal is when you have food that isn't from the standard margarita veal menu. And after an exhausting day, having some decent food and drinks was exactly what I needed. They also had a live band playing and for the first time at margarita veal I was feeling it. I had Jimmy fever. Jimmy's concert footage was playing on screen and it was a comforting presence after a hard day. After dinner Ted let me know that he had the last minute record something for his channel so he got a separate room and I got hours all to myself. But lucky for me I was kept company because Jimmy was on the hotel TV. Hi it's me Jimmy. Thank you for escaping the margarita veal. For many years margarita veal is only a song about a mythical place. Now margarita veal is a real one. Watching the hotel TV made me realize just how strikingly handsome and charming Jimmy was. So now enjoy margarita veal and remember. Bins up Jimmy. Waking up on day 8 we had two margarita veals on the schedule. The first on the list was in Miami. As we headed into the city we spotted the coolest guy that's ever lived. What's he doing? Are we flying like a fly? And then we pulled up to the Miami margarita veal which was right on the water. At this point I am about to give up on trying one cocktail at every margarita veal. We just drank last night and it's not even just about the alcohol. It's the sugar when you're having cocktail after cocktail. But for now I got the last mango in Paris and good for me. This is one of the best cocktails I've had so far. But a little hung over and exhausted I spotted a familiar face. I looked up and saw Jimmy once again on the screen. As if to say, you're all good pal. Have a good time. I ordered the grilled fish tacos which for margarita veal were pretty damn good. Now if this were at a good taco stand somewhere they would be mediocre to kind of bad. But for now they're hitting the spot. Then it was time to book it to Key West Florida. We got lucky on the drive and just nearly avoided this storm. But I gotta say once we actually hit the highway to Key West this drive was absolutely beautiful. If you're unaware the Florida Keys are a collection of islands off the mainland of Florida. In American culture these islands are pretty famous. I'm sure you've heard the beach boys talk about it or our boy Jimmy Buffett himself. Whose entire culture around his songs is really based in Key West Florida. We made our way through the Keys and I was excited because Key West was the location of the original margarita veal. But before we arrive just a quick word from our sponsor. Hey guys I just bought this new desk and I was a little worried it would be too big. But I'm happy with it I think it's the perfect size. I want to thank SoFi for sponsoring this video because it was not cheap to make. SoFi is an all in one finance app helping you bank, borrow and invest. They're checking and savings lets you earn up to 4.4% APY which is 10 times the national savings rate average. Your typical savings account at your local bank earns you just 0.42% in interest which is way less. Can you do math? Because that's way less than what I just said. If you're new to high yield savings accounts they're pretty responsible ways to store your money. It's basically an account that makes your money work harder for you by giving you something back in interest. And with SoFi checking and savings you get paid up to 2 days early, pay no account fees and can cash up to $250 when you sign up for direct deposit. And as a nationally chartered bank with SoFi your money is FDIC insured. And very exciting with this video SoFi is giving away $10,000 to one of you. All you have to do is open the SoFi checking and savings account using my link. That link is SoFi.com slash eddy with a Y. So click the link in the description or scan that QR code on screen to have a chance to win the 10k. Okay I'm going to enjoy my big desk back to the road trip. And as we arrived to the first Margaritaville restaurant I was pretty surprised by how local it felt. I mean the rest of the Margaritaville locations we went to felt like a big and branded American chain. And while this one was definitely still themed it felt more preserved from another time rather than this huge corporate thing. We were feeling pretty good so Ted and I decided to order some drinks. I got a who's to blame because it's from the lyrics of the Margaritaville song. I decided to get a cheeseburger and paradise because it just felt right to get at this location. Everything was just going really well. My burger tasted a little bit more like a local burger than a chain burger. And in such a tropical location I mean how can you not enjoy yourself. After being done with dinner we headed to the hotel. Yet again I am happy we had a sponsor for this thing because oh my god I would not be paying for this shit by myself. The location was right on the beach so after checking in we decided to go relax and see the sunset. Last year when we did our rainforest cafe road trip it was fun but also incredibly taxing. But the last few days on the beach were just too beautiful to stress about this entire road trip. And that's when it finally happened. Staring out at the water I felt my stress melt and wash away with the tides. Even though we'd driven over 40 hours and 8 days and even though my last 5 meals in a row were all Margaritaville I got it. I understood. Jimmy Buffett wasn't just some guy who turned one hit song into a corporate empire. He's the king of being chill and enjoying yourself. Right where my toes wiggled in the sand is where Jimmy started this whole thing. I can't do this trip like Eddie would. I have to do it. Like Jimmy. Because no matter how stressed I get in life. Mentally I have to be just like Jimmy Buffett. You come to a place like this and you can forget about. Wars. You know. Famous. Class disparity. I mean, all that stuff is still happening but I'm in Florida and I had a Margarita today. Likeing Buffett isn't some weird cult thing. It's what can fix me. The next morning I woke up feeling better than I ever have in my entire life. And as I was going through my bag I mysteriously found an article of clothing that I had never packed. This shirt not only looked great on me but also had put itself on my merch website Yikeshop.com. And you can get it by going there or clicking the link in the description. What the hell that's so weird. Anyways I felt refreshed and was ready to head back to mainland Florida. Today's plan was just to drive up to Orlando and stay at the Margaritaville resort there. I decided to give myself one break day because it's near the halfway point and then the next day we'd be going to Universal Studios Orlando where there's a Margaritaville restaurant at their city walk. The resort in Orlando was giant. Now Ted was a little bit late to the bookings of the resort but luckily even though they ran out of rooms at the hotel they had these cottages for him to stay in. I instantly just felt relaxed. Surrounded by my favorite quotes from my favorite guy. Oh and also it was nice to be with my lovely girlfriend Chrissy. Margaritaville! Chrissy actually wrote a song last year about wanting to live her life at Margaritaville. But unfortunately for her that's my life now so that's my thing. The two of us had a bit of a date night and had a fun night walking around Disney Springs, enjoying the sights and just having a nice time. Today is not as interesting. We were just hanging out in Orlando. I got footage of this manatee eating some lettuce so that's pretty cool. We were also hanging out with... Did you get it? We were hanging out with Drew Goodin, my good friend Drew Goodin. But Drew and Amanda did join us on the Rainforest Cafe trip in Orlando last year. So I figured of course I would ask them if they wanted to do it again. Do you want to go to Margaritaville? I don't want dinner. I don't want dinner. It's tomorrow, you're glad you live here anyway. I want to go home. You could do it whenever. I don't want to. Back when we were in Baloxy, I feel that I was a bit misguided in how I felt about Jimmy. Staying at our third Margaritaville resort brought me so much comfort. Jimmy was constantly speaking to me and reminding me to be calm, to breathe in and appreciate the beach, to drink alcohol. Leaving the resort though, we were headed to Universal Studios Islands of Adventure, because Margaritaville was located just outside the park at City Walk in Orlando. Before we entered the park, Chrissy got this awesome hat. I also tried on a hat that I was totally pulling off. Am I pulling it off? But I decided against it because I didn't want everyone at the park to be jealous of me today. We then entered the park and immediately Ted got something called Who Hash, which is a doctor-sus-themed food that looks like it served out of a dog food can. Cindy, that's your name. It's Cindy Luhu, or I don't know the mayor. We then spent the day going on rides and having fun, but right before we left, Chrissy and I decided to go on the cat and the hat ride. This ride was absolutely terrifying. What the hell is this? Is this supposed to be for children? Because this would absolutely terrify me as a kid. It terrified me right now. And after being absolutely traumatized by the cat and the hat ride, I decided to go to the Margaritaville just outside. This one had an extra bar across the walkway with a plane next to it. And this is where I figured out that every time you see a plane in Margaritaville, it's a replica of Jimmy's personal sea plane, the hemisphere dancer. Wait a minute, quick clarification here. This is the actual fucking plane. They retired Jimmy's plane and it is decoration at the Margaritaville in Orlando. I was next to Jimmy's real plane and I had no idea I'm such an idiot. When we sat down for dinner, I got the Hoolie Hoolie Chicken and Shrimp. And this dish, a SUT. The chicken was fine but the shrimp was really dry. But hey, just like my favorite guy, I spent the day in the sun, I ate some food and had a Margarita by the water, and also got to see Margaritaville employees on stilts. It's always fun to see somebody on stilts. You're not supposed to be that tall, and I'll be quite honest, it'd be funny if you fell over. The next day, I had to say goodbye to Chrissy as we headed out from the Margaritaville resort. To meet at the truck we had to head to the cottages that Ted was staying in and I got a good look at this neighborhood? Who would have thought that Jimmy also owns full neighborhoods across the country? And normally this would make me feel kind of weird, but I'm just glad that they're providing housing to those in need. Retired people in Orlando. Once again, we hit the road, headed for Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Now we're not eating at the Margaritaville there tonight, we're actually doing it tomorrow afternoon, which is great because my stomach is on fire. But I've learned from Jimmy, you know, all of it is worth it at the end of the day when you're rewarded with a tropical location. And looking at the rest of the trip, I can't wait to explore the other tropical locations this nation has to offer. Margaritaville's in places like Atlanta, Georgia. Syracuse, New York. Or Cleveland, Ohio. So yeah, I might be speaking too soon, but I'm pretty confident that I totally won't get tired of Margaritaville. When we woke up in Myrtle Beach, we didn't get to see the beach or the ocean at all because we had to go straight to the Margaritaville. This will start a stretch of four Margaritaville meals in a row. This one was located at Heroes Harbor and was pretty standard for most Margaritaville's. Except for the giant Margaritaville hurricane on the ceiling hovering above one of their giant blenders. Due to the fact that I was going to have Margaritaville a second time today, I decided to take it easy and get a grilled chicken sandwich. The sandwich was wet. It didn't seem like this was butter or anything. It just tasted like water. I'll be honest, this morning I am out of energy and my chicken sandwich is super bland. Normal Eddie would be bummed. But it was like I could almost feel Jimmy's large, warm hands on my shoulder as I took in a breath and pictured myself on the beach. Pixelated toes wiggling in the sand. Suddenly, I was okay again. Immediately after Heroes Harbor, we had to book it to Atlanta, Georgia. Our schedule was very tight, so we had to get to Atlanta before we went to bed that night. Because the next day we had a very long drive and two Margaritaville's they hit. But on our drive, traffic completely stopped. Second highway. I have to pee. The delay was so long that we ended up calling the Margaritaville and asking when they closed, because our ETA was 10 p.m. Luckily, they said the kitchen was open until 11, so we were fine if we got there an hour early. But when we arrived, we found the doors were locked. And when we asked one of the employees, they said they closed the kitchen early. This would completely ruin the next week of planning for us. But Ted threw a Hail Mary and told them that we were going to every Margaritaville in the country and that we absolutely needed to eat here tonight, but we didn't want to bother them. So if there was any way, they could even give us like a bowl of chips to eat. That would be enough. And the manager said, I got you. So they had to sit down and the bar was open, but the kitchen was absolutely closed. They got us margaritas and then brought out a piping hot plate of ribs, fries, and spinach and artichoke dip. Ted and I were kind of in disbelief because they had no reason to do this for us. But they just did it because they saw we kind of needed some help with our extremely stupid road trip. And all the manager asked was that we just give her a good Google and Yelp review. So we absolutely did that. We of course left a tip. And I just got to say this is not me praising the Margaritaville Corporation. It was just every single employee in there was so nice to us. They did not have to do that. We are two guys doing the stupidest thing in the world. And they did not need to do any extra work for us. And I am very grateful that they did. So thank you to everybody who works there. It is 7 a.m. It is now day 14. Two whole weeks of my life on Margaritaville. Today was another double Margaritaville day that included 8 to 9 hours of driving. Ted caught up on some sleep as I drove. Both of us mentally exhausted. And as we got to downtown Nashville to have lunch we walked our way to the Margaritaville. This one was pretty standard. You know it had life music, a teaky room and a plane on the ceiling. Did I want to be in another standard Margaritaville eating another standard Margaritaville meal? Not exactly, but it is not about what I want. It is about what Jimmy would do. I got a southwest chicken salad. And when the salad arrived the chicken was so so so dry. Which is fine. You know, I don't have a problem with that at all. In fact, I think that is cool as hell. Give me another Margarita. Give me another Margarita. Margarita Bill number 12. I think how you feeling Ted? I am fucking losing it. Then it was time to head for the 13th in Pigeon Forge Tennessee. Now Pigeon Forge is famous for its theme park, Dollywood. Now Dollywood is a magical place created by country legend Dolly Parton. This is the season. Dollywood. And to be honest, I would love to check this out, but we have no time to do anything on this trip to go to Margarita Villes. Heading into Pigeon Forge, their main street reminded me a lot of the Wisconsin Dels where I went frequently as a kid. Both feel like Vegas strips for Midwest family tourists. The Pigeon Forge Margarita Villes was a hotel and a restaurant. But I did not expect it to be in the middle of this huge entertainment center with a Ferris wheel. Ted and I were splitting this very interesting room. It was covered in Margarita Villes branding. And also had a balcony that went out into the shopping center. We headed down for dinner and this Margarita Villes restaurant was pretty standard except for two giant jugs of Margarita ingredients with piping that led to the restaurant's blender. At this point, I can say that we are officially burnt out. 13 meals at the same restaurant in 14 days. But in times like these, it's important to turn to faith. A higher power that can give you strength. I need to think. What would Jimmy do? If Jimmy didn't want a single bite of this food or a Margarita, he'd kick off his sandals, throw his feet on the table, lean back and order a cheeseburger in paradise and another Margarita. I mean, if that's what Jimmy would do, I guess. I loved every single bite of it and I was very glad that Jimmy was keeping a watchful eye on me the entire meal. I ate the entire thing. I wasn't sick of this food or extremely full. I was cool as a cucumber. Does this look like the face of somebody who isn't as chill as Jimmy Buffett? To prove how chill I was, I decided to grab this hat from the gift shop and I was totally pulling it off. Ted went to finish his video in the room and a chill guy like me decided to cruise around and see the sights. Normally, even though I don't have a fear of heights, I've generally avoided Ferris wheels. I also don't like doing things socially in public when I'm alone, like riding a ride. But I wasn't normal me anymore. I'd been born again as something much better. Cool Eddie. So when I got in line, I spotted the family ahead of me being forced to take a green screen picture before getting on the ride. And I thought they're not going to force me to take that picture by myself, Fred. I got on that Ferris wheel and was totally chill the whole time. I am not worried about how high up we're going. Oh, oh we're shaking. So chill in fact that I fell asleep while on the ride. So where to go? So where to go? I was dead asleep after I felt phenomenal. Normal Eddie wouldn't have gone on that Ferris wheel alone. But thanks to Jimmy, I have faith. The next day all we had to do was drive from Tennessee to Atlantic City, New Jersey. After yesterday, I have absolutely zero complaints about the trip. I'm chill, fun, I'm not exhausted in the slightest. And because of that, I decided to catch up on a little bit of reading from my favorite guy. Do you know what Jimmy Buffett is? 76 years young. Cool. So Jimmy actually has over 30 albums, most of which have gone gold, platinum, or some even have gone multi-platinum. They would hoot and holler and roll all round up there at the church they built out of an old school bus. And they'd run through the swamp. Nobody's fucking snagged. Don't you know nobody's snagged Reverend Sonny Boy and his followers? Snake by Key was his domain. We started Day 16 at the Margaritaville in Atlantic City. This one was located inside of a casino. And even though it was 1130, I got a Margarita for Jimmy. I enjoyed my morning Margarita because that's the kind of guy that I am now. Other than that though, this was a pretty uneventful Margaritaville. The waiter complimented my shirt, which you could get at Yikeshop.com. My lava lava shrimp was crispy and I liked the sauce. I was having a great time. I even saw ores on the wall of Jimmy's most famous moments. Like when he performed for Facebook. When he played the electric guitar. When he rocked down. And when he had a mustache. Then we headed to the beach to see the ocean so I could really take in the atmosphere. New Jersey. Next we made our way to New York City. Now normally staying in Times Square would be my nightmare. New York is great, but the crowds, the germs and the general vibe of Times Square is a fever dream. But cool Eddie didn't think about those things. So we checked into the hotel and went to our rooms. This is the whole room. When we headed downstairs, before we went up the escalator to go to the restaurant, I was talking to one of the employees and they gave me a warning. They said don't order the Jimmy's jam in Jumbalaya. And I said why? They replied with, it's bad. Steer clear of it. So I will not be getting that right now. As we walked into the restaurant, a shining beacon caught my eye. In the center of the room was a giant replica of the Statue of Liberty holding a margarita to the sky. The margarita glass was made out of an LED screen that played video on it. This was a shining beacon of light for all of those across the world who wanted to head to America and eat at a margarita vill in Times Square. And this wasn't just the Statue of Liberty. This was a sign from Jimmy that I had not gone far enough. So we ordered some food and some drinks with Ted's friends Katie and Devon. And this is where I decided to go all in. Anytime I felt a moment of being tired on this road trip or wanted to go home, I'd cut it short with another sip of a margarita. And we had margarita after margarita. The margarita vill in Times Square also has bars on multiple floors. So we decided to do the margarita vill bar crawl. Drink after drink I could feel myself becoming closer to the man himself. And as Ted headed home for the night, I wandered around Times Square. I was invincible. I could make a beach out of anything. And it was then that I saw the absolute beauty of this place. Times Square was just like the beaches I'd been to. And I could live like this every night for the rest of my life. Alright, it is 7 in the morning. I fear that last night I jimmyed a little too close to the sun. I don't know how Jimmy does this. I don't know how you can sustain this lifestyle. After getting out of bed, I got locked in the bathroom. As we make our way out of New York, I need to be honest with you. I know this may come as a shock, but I have not been loving every single margarita vill. I just can't do it. I can't be like Jimmy. But we were headed to yet another in Syracuse, New York, with Ted's friend Tucker. Holding up in Syracuse, it seemed to be a mall called Destiny USA. Not exactly a tropical beach somewhere. I parked in a different spot from everyone else and got lost in the mall trying to find them. So I went to this guy's Spencer for directions. Word of advice? Do not go in there. Arriving to this margarita vill, it was clear that this one was probably the worst we'd ever seen. It was a lifeless margarita vill in a mall. The food was below average. And if it wasn't for good conversation in the group, I would have really hated this lunch. Next up was Niagara Falls. So yet again, the boys were headed to Canada. Any plans or animals coming in? No. Any alcohol or tobacco? No. Any cannabis in your car? No. Any guns in your vehicle? No. Any currency? A thousand dollars or more? No. Once we were through the border, we decided to park and walk over to the margarita vill. And the energy at the Niagara Falls margarita vill was different. We were seated next to a massive Niagara Falls screen. Then you was different and they had this pirate mascot guy? Hey Canada, Jimmy's the mascot. You don't need a pirate. Jimmy's already there. I got the Buffalo Poutine because we were in Canada and to my surprise, this was by far the best thing I've had at margarita vill. The chicken and fries were crispy, the gravy was really good. This was just a really great meal. And then just over the falls, a giant animatronic of a tequila bottle came over the cliff side. It then poured tequila into the giant blender in front of us. We were having a blast in Canada. We then decided to walk over to the falls. I saw this skunk on the way, check it out. As we were showing up to the falls, we happened to catch it right at the time that the fireworks show started. With a couple drinks in us, we had the best possible time in Canada. I should have a couple margaritas every night. Bad news guys, my tummy hurts again. I don't care anymore. I'm over this whole thing. Today we went to Cleveland, the most tropical margarita vill that exists. I got a Caesar salad and the chicken on this thing. Wow, without exaggeration. This was the toughest piece of chicken I've ever chewed in my entire life. And for some reason out of nowhere, Ted has started liking margarita vill now. What the fuck is wrong with this guy? Lucky for me, day 19 was in Chicago. Ted and I took the metro into the city because this one was located at Navy Pier. Now I've mentioned before that I'm from the suburbs of Chicago, so it was really great to be home. And when we arrived to the city, it got even better because we met up with my brother, Tony. Oh shit, who the fuck is over there? When we finally got to Navy Pier, we also met up with my good friend, Danny Gonzalez. Heading into this margarita villa, I was surprised to see that it looked more like a Chicago tavern than a regular margarita vill restaurant. Everyone in the group obviously wanted margaritas and I didn't want to be a buzzkill, so I went for another one again. We noticed that the photos for the fish and chips made them look higher quality than we'd seen before, so out of curiosity I ordered them again. They looked almost exactly the same. And even though everyone except for me was excited to eat, after the meal none of us felt good. Okay, so we just got out of a margarita villa and we're all feeling like we had a pretty heavy meal, but I think I know what'll make us feel better. The Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! Bee! But even the bee couldn't stop by tummy from hurting. What makes it worse is that Jimmy wouldn't have a tummy ache, he'd probably be cool and chill about all this. I am such a failure. Alright, we're about to leave my moms, but I can understand why I felt so bad after eating the fish and chips. I woke up and my stomach is legitimately like, I'm in a little bit of pain. It's not like food poisoning or anything. I just think my body cannot handle this much margarita bill. Eventually I got my stuff together and we started the drive to Bloomington, Minnesota to go to the margarita villa in Mall of America. During the drive however, I found out that I was not the only one who was affected by yesterday's fish and chips. So Ted and I both got the fish and chips yesterday. And we've had some let's say stomach issues today. Yeah. So I think I can officially say that we're getting pretty damn tired of eating margarita bill all the time. What? You know? It's right, what do you mean? You had intestinal trouble today. What are you talking about? Yeah, but I mean like the vibes kind of kind of counteracted. The vibes counteracted. What are you talking about? You're unhappy while we're on tropical beaches through all of Florida. I don't know. I think my, my, my, you know, I realized I had some self-reflection. I realized some things were maybe a little bit different than I was saying. The day you had self-reflection is the day you had diarrhea. Finally we got to Mall of America, the largest mall in the United States, so I could have margarita bill for the 20th time. And Ted seemed more excited than ever for absolutely no reason. Not only are there more margarita bills than rainforest cafes, but this one is taking a toll on my body and I cannot wait to be done. As we entered the biggest mall that the U.S. has to offer, I felt a disturbing energy. Oh God. I had somehow forgotten that this margarita bill was directly across from the rainforests cafe. The two restaurants that have broken my soul and made me look like a fool, sharing a space right next to each other. We headed inside to get this one over with and as I went to order a water, Ted ordered us two five o'clock somewheres in a blender and an order of volcano nachos. The thought of drinking one of these drinks just six hours after trying to recover from yesterday's meal was sickening. And before I knew it, a giant mound of nachos arrived at the table. But somehow, next to my misery was Ted. Enjoying himself to a weird degree for the first time at the 20th margarita bill. Then it was time for our entrees and I realized that in my attempt to order as much of the menu as possible, I had only a few chances left to get a dish that I had been avoided. One that sent shivers down my spine just hearing the name. Jimmy's. Jammin. Jambalaya. As I went for a bite, I clearly burned my mouth right here. I burned the shit out of my mouth. It doesn't look hot when you look at the plate, but when I picked it up on a fork, look at the steam, my god. Jimmy's jammin, Jambalaya was fine. But when you eat at a restaurant 20 times in 20 days, everything from them starts to taste the same. And instead of joining me in my misery, Ted yet again was having a blast at the Mall of America. Look at the way he's eating the way he's that's driving up the fucking wall. I know. That's when for the first time the thought crossed my mind. I might kill Ted. After finishing our meal and paying, Ted demanded that we go on a roller coaster immediately. I mean, Keel, let me digest for a while. I have to come on. After the troubles of this morning, enforcing down this meal and having another super sweet cocktail, going on this ride broke me. Even though they didn't let us film, Ted insisted on going on the ride a second time right after we got off. So nauseous and tired, I walked around alone. There I was again. Wasting away in Margaritaville. Not chill like Jimmy. Just Eddie. Day 21 and thank God we only have one Margaritaville left in Las Vegas, Nevada. There's another one in Tulsa, Oklahoma. And it's a 10 hour drive. Oh my god. When we arrived in Tulsa, we were shocked to find that this restaurant wasn't just in a casino. The casino was owned by Margaritaville. Walking past the slot machines to get to the restaurant, I noticed that there were Jimmy Buffett quotes on the wall. But they were less about being peaceful and more about luck and winning in the casino. We got to the restaurant and this one was pretty big. Lucky for me, the menu and food quality at this one was much better than most Margaritavils. And having this food was actually pretty refreshing after a month of cheeseburgers and paradise. But as we left in her, I noticed how Margaritaville branded the machines in the casino were. And they had these Margaritaville characters on it that I had never seen before. Mr. Money Bags. Lucky Duckie. Who the hell are these people? Ted and I were on the final stretch across the country and all we had to do today was camp at Santa Rosa Lake in New Mexico. On our way, I stopped by snacks at the gas station when this dog came out of nowhere and was just hanging out near me. Who's dog is this? I'm in a gas station. Anyways, I grabbed my snacks and they, oh, oh, hey. The owner said it was his dog, his name was Buddy and he was very sweet. We got to our campsite and it was beautiful. Ted made some steaks on the grill and I made a little spread of meats and cheeses for us to snack on. Having a full day to enjoy ourselves and nature got me thinking. As we near the end of this road trip, I realized that maybe I was trying a little too hard to be like Jimmy Buffett. And on our way to Vegas, I questioned why I had strived to be a beloved, rich and famous musician that gets to vacation all the time. I mean, what was I thinking? I don't need to be Jimmy Buffett. I need to be myself. And to truly be myself, I need to face what I fear most. Something that has been haunting me for over a year of my life. And finally, I think I'm ready. Stand right there. Ted, we are headed to the final Margaritaville. But what do you say we make one pit stop first? Do you want to go to the Rainforest Cafe and get one drink? The Las Vegas Rainforest Cafe was just as I had remembered. It had a Tracy tree, a cheetah, elephants, monkeys, and of course. Thunderstorms. Ted and I got two cheetah retas and man they were bad. But to my surprise, I liked being back. It was comforting in a way. Not like being home, but sort of like when you pass your old high school and it feels familiar, but you'd never want to spend a full day there ever again. After our quick pit stop, Ted and I said goodbye to the cafe and we're ready to close this whole thing out. One more. One more. We walked just two blocks down the strip and finally arrived at the final Margaritaville. This one was one of the busiest and most decorated Margaritavilles of the entire trip. And for the first time, I truly felt it. We ordered two perfect Margaritas and a key lime pie. A dessert to end our 24 day Margaritaville meal. Turns out I can experience true joy like Jimmy, but only when I'm done doing a thing that I have to do. Our pies arrived and as the key lime hit my mouth, it tasted like one thing. Limes or oh, sorry, victory. And that was it. We had eaten at every single Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville in the US and Canada. Finally, I could go home. We were done again. And the only thing left to do was to say goodbye to the man that had helped me through this whole thing. Goodbye, Jimmy. Goodbye, Jimmy. Goodbye, Jimmy. Goodbye, Jimmy's dog. Goodbye, Jimmy. I truly cannot believe that we did this a second time. And after celebrating our accomplishment that night in Vegas, Ted and I ended our journey looking out on the strip in the exact same spot we had just one year before. Our second and final road trip doing something like this was now over. And these two journeys have done so much for me. I've been able to see so many beautiful locations across this country. I've been able to make countless memories with people that I love and care about. As a person, I've been able to grow and learn more about myself. But these trips were about something so much more than all of those things. What it's all about at the end of the day is giving two giant corporations a ton of my money. And knowing that I did that means that I wouldn't trade these trips for the world. Not even if my family was in danger and doing so would save them. So now, after just 45 days of our lives, Ted and I are the only two people on the planet that can say we've been to every rainforest cafe and Margaritaville in the US and Canada. It's actually not that impressive. Oh my god, was this a giant waste of time? 45 days that doesn't even count when I planned both trips or when we were editing our videos? Oh my god. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no.