Does anyone actually watch Late Night TV anymore? I mean, of course we catch Late Night clips online, occasionally you'll see a monologue from Jimmy Kimmel, or a closer look with Seth Meyers or a TikTok from Jimmy Fallon. But do most people turn on the TV, change the channel to network television, sit down and watch a Late Night episode from beginning to end? The answer, of course, for most people is no. Ratings for every single Late Night show over the last decade have pretty much been tanking. Back in 2019, I made a video called Late Night TV Needs to Change, and it seemed to resonate with people because audiences felt that the format was getting stale. Then, during the quarantine in 2020, the shows were forced to rapidly change their format when they had to make their shows from home. Hello, and welcome to a Late Show. I'm your host, Stephen Colbert. It's my birthday! In quarantine! Woo! Isn't that nice? And then unfortunately, I was made to look like an idiot when Jimmy Fallon and Paris Hilton saved Late Night TV by pushing a board-ape NFT on the Tonight Show. This is your... This is your ape? What would they be? That's really cool. Like the hat, the shades. Now what? How did you pick? Because you can pick your ape. Yes, I was going through a lot of them and I was like, I want something that kind of reminds me of me. But this one, it does. And then I made another piece by hand to me six months, and it's a collage of all of my memories. But years later, it feels like Late Night is in a very weird place. I feel like we're in Late Night limbo. And it feels like something that was once an institution in American entertainment is now just like a side thing that happens on the internet. So first, I want to start with the current state of Late Night. And there's no better person to start that with than America's favorite Late Night host. Now I'm sure that lots of people are wondering how I ended up here in this seat, and I include myself in that too. There's a lot of things to say about James Corden, but regardless of your opinion of him as a person, he's actually a very good example of where the current state of Late Night is. And that's because in April of 2022, Corden announced that he would be ending his show the day his current contract was over. As I've decided, I've decided to sign for one more year on the show and that this will be my last year hosting the Late Night Show. Don't you dare. That day is April 27, 2023. So officially, the Late Late Show with James Corden is over. Wait, wait, wait. Some people liked the show, I'm sure. Okay, now if this were even 10 years ago, it would be a shock to many that a host in such a sought-after slot on Network TV was ending his show so early. There would be constant discussion on why Corden was leaving so soon and what comedian was being scouted to replace him and get a shot at their own Late Night Show. But when James announced that he was ending his run, the audience reaction was basically, yeah. Yeah, no, that sounds about right. This is partially because James Corden made himself extremely disliked in the public eye, which don't worry, I will get to in a minute. But as someone in the US, I had never heard of James until he was announced to take over the Late Late Show from Craig Ferguson. When do you take over the show, James? We will start on March 23rd, yes. Oh, unlucky 23rd on March. I just wanted to say, James, I'm delighted it's you. I'm delighted you're taken over and I'm very, very sorry for what's about to happen. Craig had gathered somewhat of a cult following and had a very passionate fan base that loved his show. And Corden wasn't alone in replacing a beloved host. James was part of a new generation of Late Night Host because from 2014 to 2015, there was a major shake-up in the Late Night lineup. Jay Leno was retiring for the second time, passing the tonight show over to Jimmy Fallon. Now you might ask yourself, how do you retire twice? And it's a really simple procedure. First, you leave your job after decades of having it, you gracefully hand the position over to Conan O'Brien, and then you decide that you miss the attention. So you come back, destroy Conan's career for a year or two, and then you decide you're tired and you retire once again. Is Jay reached out to you? No. No calls. No, I do not think I'll be hearing from him. As Jimmy moved from Late Night with Jimmy Fallon up to the tonight show, Seth Meyers moved to the Late Night slot from his headwriting position at SNL. David Letterman was also retiring, handing a show over to Stephen Colbert. So as all of the older white dudes were retiring, a new, fresh group of hosts were taking over. And this group was much more diverse because yes, they were all white. And yes, they were all dudes. But one was British. Now James Corden is one of the most interesting TV hosts of all time because it feels like he's been on a multi-year campaign to make himself unlikable. I'm sure you're already aware of his controversy in 2022, but if you're not, James was banned from a top restaurant in New York called Balthazar for being abusive to the staff. The owner of Balthazar said James Corden is a hugely gifted comedian but a tiny cretin of a man. And the most abusive customer to my Balthazar servers since the restaurant opened 25 years ago. Now James argued I believe that his wife had an allergy and he was just sticking up for her. But people who are servers and restaurants are always accommodating for allergies. And they're not always banning people and making a public statement about it. So I tend to lean toward the people who banned him rather than his defense. I don't bring this up though to paint James Corden as a monster. I just want to say that when you are a late night host and you're on people's television screens every single night, likeability is really important. And part of that likeability for me at least is how you treat your crew. And back in 2016, James was playing a game on a show called Spill Your Guts or Fill Your Guts. Now personally, I think this game is wildly entertaining for television. The basic premise is that James writers and staff draft questions for him and his guests that are too juicy for them to answer on TV. And they're usually very personal to the guest and James. After being asked the question, they have to make a choice. Do they want to answer this difficult question on TV for everyone to see or eat a gross food? And during this shooting of the game with Jimmy Kimmel, he was asked this. Name two of the cameraman in this room. Oh! That is a great question. Oh! Oh! It's a different crew tonight actually. At this point, Gordon's show had been running for over two years. As the host of a show, to not even know the names of your crew may have been played off as a joke in the moment, but is wildly unacceptable behavior. I know people have differing opinions on Jimmy Kimmel, but I'm actually glad this happened in front of him. Because as a season late night host, Jimmy is pretty famous for the family culture around his crew. I mean, some of his crew are quite literally his family, but I would bet that Jimmy would easily know his cameraman's names. And the same goes for Colbert, Conan, Myers, Trevor Noah, and Fallon. It's even more telling that his own staff are the ones who asked this question. Is this a bigger deal than being abusive to restaurant staff? No. But when you're watching a show constantly, you pick up on these little moments and they might make you not want to watch. Stuff like James finding out that Alice Cooper has a phobia of balloons being rubbed together because he hates the sound. And then James does this. I don't know if people know what you're talking about. No, I'm saying. No, I'm saying. No, I'm not making fun. I'm saying it's easy. That's what it is. That noise. That noise. So if someone says, oh, that's the one. And this last one is a super specific nitpick that is not a real problem, but as someone who lives in L.A., I have to talk about. James' Crosswalk Musicals are a really funny idea and usually start with a funny sketch where James is parodying people who are too much in the theater industry. But every time he does one of these, I just think about the fact that this is a very busy street in Los Angeles. How do I know? Because I walked there to show you. The premise of the sketch is very funny. They perform a musical number, but the second the crosswalk goes red, they have to scream and run off to allow traffic to start. But every time they do one of these, we see clips of unhappy drivers who don't give a shit about James Corden and just want to go home. The program is light to last longer and clock traffic just so James can do a bit. Oh, it's good that car. But as I stood there trying to get footage to show you how busy the crosswalk can get even in the early afternoon, I started to become overwhelmed by the sheer star power of it all. The crosswalk was labeled Corden Crosswalk and I could see his face plastered on the CBS building. International superstars had stood right here, people like Harry Styles, BTS or Josh Gabb. And that's when it hit me. I could cross the walk myself. This was it. This was my moment. So I clicked the crosswalk button, waited for the countdown and finally. It was exhilarating. Okay, so I just crossed the Corden Crosswalk and I feel great. I found myself crossing again and again. Number three was good, but how about number four? I just couldn't get enough. Alright, that is seven times across the Corden Crosswalk and I can't get enough. I could feel the energy of fame coursing through my veins. If you're famous, who cares if you stop traffic for people going home from work? Who cares if you're abusive to restaurant staff? Smells like James. Some people know your name and face and that makes you better. Welcome, welcome, welcome to the tonight show you are here. Thank you for watching. The reason I want to talk about Fallen after James Corden is because to me, even though Corden follows Coulbert on CBS, he's always kind of seemed like diet Jimmy Fallen. In 2014 when Jimmy took over, he exploded the tonight show's ratings and pretty instantly became the King of Late Night. This was mainly due to the tonight show's ability to showcase Jimmy's friendly personality as he played games and did stunts with celebrities. And right now we're going to try a new game called FaceKitball. At this time, whether you like him or not, Jimmy made the tonight show the Late Night Show to watch on TV and on YouTube. But I think long term, this is ended up hurting Jimmy more than it helped. But before we keep going, a quick word from our sponsor. Hey everybody, I just bought this new hat and I think it's the perfect size. This video was sponsored by Displate. Displate is a one of a kind metal poster designed to capture your unique passions. You can customize, collect and rearrange them at will. This hat doesn't look too big, right? It looks fine. It only takes 20 seconds to set them up with no power tools, no damages and no frustrations. They have both branded designs like Star Wars or Bethesda and artistic designs like these ones. They let me pick out some posters and I chose this cool classic JAWS1 and it was extremely easy to set up. This plate also has a unique and easy magnet mounting system as well so you don't have to go at your wall with a hammer. Displate is also printed in the EU and has an expected delivery time in just 4-5 business days. So you can use code eddy at displate.com slash burback for 32% off 1-3 displates or 42% off 4 or more displates. It's also displates birthday so apparently this is the biggest sale they've ever done. I think the hat is too big, I think I need to return it. People expect a lot from a late night host. They have to be friendly, yes, but they also have to be quick, great at stand up every single night, one of the best interviewers on TV and more. And aside from the host for a very long time the big draw to late night was its access to celebrity culture. Before the internet, if there was a celebrity you liked that you wanted to see interviewed, you could tune into the night show to see what they were like. Nowadays you have near unlimited access to content of people that you want to follow. You can see daily social media posts from celebrities, a million press junkets when they promote their movies or TV shows. There are podcasts appearances, YouTube interviews, live streams and more. I honestly think a change in that culture is also a huge reason people don't tune in live to these shows. And during the 2016 election, a lot of audiences started to want to see their host increase the amount that they lampooned the day's news. So when the tonight show put all their eggs into the fun celebrity show with Jimmy Fallon basket, it didn't transition well to this new era of late night, with Jimmy actively avoiding politics and admitting later that he regretted it. I also think other than the 2016 election there was a measurable shift in the public's desire for celebrity content. One moment on a specific day that caused most people to lose interest in idolizing celebrities and finally view them as regular people. Imagine all the people that were put off by one video. I like to pretend that Pedro wasn't in that video. He was shooting Wonder Woman, he did it for his co-star, he was trying to be nice, we forgive you Pedro. I will say though that in the past, I think we were all a little too hard on Jimmy Fallon. When someone takes the seat on such a prestigious throne, we expect absolute perfection from them. And I think feeling the shoes of Johnny Carson or being better than Conan O'Brien is way too much to ask from the guy. And it's not like the tonight show is unwatchable, a lot of people really love him and the show. I will also always praise Jimmy for choosing the roots as his band. And now Jimmy Kimmel! I feel so unbelievably neutral on Jimmy Kimmel. Maybe once or twice a year I'll catch a monologue he did or a viral segment from his show, but I've never really felt strongly about him. I will say I think he and Corden had the most boring quarantine shows. Jimmy Kimmel live is probably the most cookie cutter classic late night show format of all of them. One thing I did notice though is that Kimmel seems to interlace a lot of his monologue with viral video clips and clips from the news before he makes jokes about them. It feels a bit more like a modern take on a monologue because he's reacting to them a little bit more and they do really well on YouTube for that reason I think. But yeah, I don't know, I don't really feel strongly about Jimmy Kimmel. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome in here out there all around the world to the lake show. I am your host even Colbert. So when we're looking at the current state of late night and how the format works after quarantine, a lot of hosts have not changed much since they came back. Especially the big three, Fallen, Colbert and Kimmel. Fallen of course wasn't equipped for the political change in late night, but if anyone on the planet was, it was Steven Colbert fresh off the Colbert Report. In my older videos, I've expressed that when I was a teenager, the Colbert Report was one of the best pieces of satire and performance art that I had ever seen in my life. I and many others were slightly disappointed to see that once the late show had premiered and run for about a year, the show just wasn't quite as funny or as smart as the Colbert Report. But honestly, years later, I'm not sure if that would have even been possible for him at all. Steven was doing a satirical character after nearly a decade of playing him. He was then hired to be himself and replace David Letterman in the late night format. And I think Steven's comedy, when it's not character based, is just really not for me most of the time. I think I speak for most young late night viewers when I say that I actually really like Steven Colbert, but I don't watch his show much anymore. I actually prefer seeing even more of Steven's personality when he was unscripted with his wife Evie during quarantine. But since then, the show has kind of gone back to exactly what it was before COVID started. I do want to retract something though that I said in 2019 about Colbert being a mediocre interviewer. While I do think that some hosts like Myers or Conan are better at elevating comedians and interviews and Colbert maybe isn't the best at it, I have seen some really honest and compassionate moments from Steven with his guests. You yourself have suffered great grief just recently with the loss of your mother and I'm sorry for your family's loss. Thank you. And I'm wondering how doing this show or any show, how art itself helps you deal with grief. Yeah. Colbert also added something to their YouTube lineup where he takes questions from the audience in between tapings, which is something originally that Trevor Noah started at the Daily Show. But I love these segments. I think what's really special about Steven Colbert is he seems like an extremely intelligent and compassionate person. You went on say what punishments have got or not gifts. Do you really believe that? Yes. So what do you get from loss? You get awareness of other people's loss. Well that's true. And what it allows you to connect with that other person, right? Which allows you to love more deeply and to understand what it's like to be a human being. Good evening everybody, I'm Seth Myers. This is Lee and I hope you're doing well and now if you don't mind we're going to get to the news. I've mentioned in the past that as the network late night shows have progressed and especially since Conan is off the air now. Late night with Seth Myers is easily my favorite. Seth is funny, he's really good with guests and seems to have a great relationship with his crew and writers. Who ate my weed gummies? Wally? Tom? There were a lot of gummies in this jar. Who ate them Bianca? Sarah? Brian? During quarantine I pray Seth for being the first to quickly adapt his show to shooting from home. His closer look segments were the only regular late night that I could watch other than the occasional Trevor Noah segment from the Daily Show. As a fan of Late Night though because their shows were made in their home and felt like YouTube videos, I started exclusively watching Late Night on YouTube and abandoned watching it on TV altogether. This is where, in my opinion, we started to see the beginning of the end for Late Night as an institution in American culture. Because from 2014 to 2020, Late Night was forced to rapidly change with the times as video on the internet became the primary source for entertainment. Every show started introducing segments that were meant to go viral on YouTube. And for a time, that was a great way to entice young people to get off YouTube and tune into the show on TV. But ever since quarantine, I've stopped watching live TV altogether. As a 26 year old, I just don't catch cable or network TV live and I barely watch cable or network TV unless it's on streaming the next day. It's the one exception of watching SNL Live which I've been doing less and less lately just because it's not normal for me to watch TV as a young person. I don't have a cable package and you cannot force me to get a cable package. I will never do it Comcast. You'll never get me again! Real quick, I totally forgot to mention this while I was making the entire video. The Yikes clothing that I'm wearing throughout the whole thing is new merch and I didn't think to mention it once. It's at yikeshop.com or the link is in the description to click. I'm so sorry I didn't mention it before. Back to the video. And this is where I think I disagree with the energy of my video in 2019 the most. Because at the end of the day, no matter who changed the format in what way or who hosted what show, late night has passed its prime simply because times have changed. I mentioned access to celebrity culture not being a draw to late night anymore. But almost every feature of late night TV has thousands of alternatives online or in streaming services. Do you want to watch some celebrity interviews? You could watch Hot Ones or a podcast they were on or magazine interviews like GQ or Wired on YouTube. Do you want to see Topical Comedy on today's news? Everyone on Twitter has already beaten every joke to death on the topic before the day's late night episode even begins taping. Late night audiences have watched some hosts change their format and continue to keep up with them on YouTube. But there is simply too much good content out there in the world to expect most people to shut it all off and tune into an hour of network television. Conan had completely shifted his show around until finally settling on the fact that late night was no longer a good format for him. He now has an extremely successful podcast where he does much more personal and in-depth interviews he couldn't do in the old format. He also has been developing what seems to be a full show for his remotes and travel remotes, which was a wildly successful new format to his show that showcased his talents much better than being forced to do a monologue in a suit in front of a live audience. It's why I don't blame Trevor Noah for leaving the Daily Show. He's young, very intelligent and full of potential. Why waste it on a cable show on Comedy Central that people are almost exclusively watching on YouTube? Especially when every other late night show has become a form of the Daily Show for the most part. And other comedians like John Oliver, Hussin Minhazh and Z-Way have all tried to radically change the format. And as a viewer, all three of these shows totally work for me. But Hussin's Patriot Act and Z-Way both got canceled. I think that's probably why we saw Trevor Noah leave without passing the show to a successor, leaving the Daily Show to just cycle through guest hosts for now. And CBS ending the late late show along with Corden ending his run. They're actually replacing it with a reboot of At Midnight from Comedy Central? I just never thought I would see At Midnight return ever again. So can shows like late night work? Yes, of course. But I don't think we'll ever see late night as an institution again, because at the time it was one of like three things on TV. Year by year, the late night business makes less money and ratings go down. And I think that has more to do with atmosphere than the hosts themselves. When I was 13, my parents got a cable package that required two extra cable boxes to be installed in our house. That meant that for the first time, my brother Tony and I had access to watch what we wanted later at night. Now this coincidentally was right around the time that Conan O'Brien agreed to start his show again on TBS. At the time, this was a huge deal running off the Tonight Show drama. So we tuned in to watch his premiere episode, and I cannot stress how instantly hooked we were on his show. For years, I was glued to the TV almost every single night to watch him. I love how silly he allowed himself to be, how frequently he made himself the butt of a joke to elevate his guests. Andy was always quick and hilarious, and anytime Conan did a remote, I was beyond excited. And for most of my teenage years, I had two dreams in my life. One is that I wanted to make movies or be involved in making movies. And the other was to one day become a comedian with my own late night show. And that's what made the 2014 to 2015 transition so exciting for me. It was really cool seeing the differences in whatever he shows, crew, writers, and hosts had to offer to the format. But much like the format, that dream has slowly faded over time, and that's okay. Times change, the world changes, and people's interest change. So who knows what the future of late night will be. Maybe it'll fizzle out and die, or maybe it'll just drop in ratings and never be as influential as it once was. But there is something that I do know for sure. And that's the fact that if you have any positive memory laughing at a late night show with yourself, for friends, or family, it would be 100% impossible without the talented writers on staff at these shows. Now I'm sure you've heard about this, but if you haven't, currently the writers' guild of America is on strike negotiating with major studios. Then we begin with the WGA strike. Writers say they are fighting to make screenwriting a sustainable career once again. Writers on average, now getting paid 23% less than 15 years ago when adjusted for inflation. Times are changing fast in entertainment, which is why I was overjoyed to see all of the hosts and late night shows pause their production to support the writers in this situation. These are our writers, and I'll stick myself in there because I'm WGA too, and they're so important to our show. I need my writers. I need them real bad. I need to be so bad. Yeah, I got no show without my writers. No one. Look, no one is entitled to a job in show business, but for those people who have a job in show business, they are entitled to fair compensation. They are entitled to make a living. Because while some people who are critical of the strike online think that the Hollywood elite are striking for more money, it's not the case at all. The Hollywood elite you're thinking of are studio execs that get super, super rich off of the work of the writers. So if you are against the Hollywood elite and pro the little guy, then you should be pro this union and pro the strike. And with that being said, I have one more very important thing to do. This will be my last year hosting the live show. Don't you dare. Blind Mary, the eggs are overcooked. Let's make the way of crime. So now I thank you for making it easily. Thank you for making it easy to leave.