Italy. A nation of natural beauty, art, and of course food. Americans, including myself, have a very interesting relationship with this country, rather than a deep understanding of its history, it's become almost a cartoonish export of food and culture. And due to immigration in the early 1900s, we have our own Italians, Chris Cuomo, Frank Sinatra, my dad, the Rizzler. Is the Rizzler Italian? He's from Jersey, I think, so that's like the same thing, right? But when we're talking about Italian restaurants in America, there's one that stands alone and not only its success, but its influence in the minds of what Americans consider Italian food to be. That restaurant, of course, is Olive Garden. But ask different people about the restaurant and you'll get different results. Some say that it's the quintessential place for celebrating birthdays, graduations, job promotions. Others will describe it as a gross misrepresentation of Italian food and culture. One big American company perading around is an authentic Italian kitchen. But has anyone ever been so brave, so unbelievably bold to go out of their way to directly compare the two? What would a person look like that could tackle such an important cultural divide? Well, you're looking at it. At the Olive Garden Italian restaurant, we speak a different language. We have no words for Kant. And won't. No phrases for a little less. In fact, we don't know the meaning of enough. Some would say speaking a different language can make all the difference in the world. There is no better sale of the American dream than the growth of a whole-mawal restaurant beloved by the community that grows into an international sensation. People love a story that starts with a humble family business that overcomes adversity and is rewarded with riches beyond their wildest imagination. And the Olive Garden Italian kitchen is not that story. In 1982, General Mills, the serial company... What, it's serial company. In 1982, General Mills, the company that made Cheerios, was fresh off of over a decade of success from their acquired seafood restaurant, Red Lobster. One Red Lobster, what? If it's been a while since you've eaten crab legs, the Red Lobster reminds you how... Uh-huh, right in the middle. That's right. After years of success of owning Red Lobster run by its original owner, Bill Darden, General Mills had a groundbreaking idea. What if we did Red Lobster but like... Italian, I guess. The Olive Garden Italian kitchen was an instant success. With an advertising campaign meant to convince the American public that there was a fully authentic Italian restaurant opening in their town. We know speak it in English. We only from how you say Orlando, Florida. So I will be conducting the ultimate comparison of an Americanized theme and the actual source it came from. I will go to Olive Garden. Then I will travel to the nation of Italy, adventuring from Naples, took a pre to Sicily, then Rome, Florence, the Tuscan countryside and Venice. Finally returning to the land of freedom. Miller Light Speedboats house on Fox, Dane of White, Freedom, Freedom, Freedom, Freedom, Freedom... And then I will go to Olive Garden one more time for comparison in the suburbs of Chicago when I'm home for the holidays. Also, yes. Before you ask, this is my shirt and you can buy it with other clothes at Yikeshop.com. God, you're so embarrassing. Let me live. So before the trip to Italy, I, of course, had to go to. Unlike the Olive Gardens I've seen in the past, this one looked considerably less Italian. Instead of the standard Tuscan stone, it looked like a bank with the Olive Garden sign just slapped on it. Well, that was actually a bank before. Yep. Okay, unlike the somewhat dying brands of my past adventures, this Olive Garden was full of people. And not in a tourist area. This was a neighborhood spot that was just booked and busy. The decor inside felt less like a Tuscan village and more like the home of an American who's only a little Italian but makes it their whole identity. Unlike me. Someone who's only a little Italian but it's like different when I say it. In America, it's really not about how Italian you are. It's about how loudly you claim to be. As we were seated, I immediately noticed that the table came with its very own tablet, so your young child would never have to spend a single second without a screen. My brother Tony then immediately started playing Spider-Man. But when I got a turn, I played the world famous app, Doggy Dots. Feels redundant to even explain because we all of course know Doggy Dots. But it's a 101 Dalmatian themed card matching game where you need to memorize which cards are placed where to find its matching... Oh, not quite, buddy. But soon, I was sucked out of the digital world as perhaps the most famous part of this dinner arrived to our table. Olive Gardens Unlimited Breadsticks are a staple of American chain restaurant culture. Can I read you this right? Olive Garden passing out too many breadsticks? Can you do that? Can you pass out to the minute? Think it's possible. If you're unaware, if you finish the serving of breadsticks at your table, they just keep bringing you more. Is this a colossal waste of food? Yes. Is it perhaps the most gluttonous restaurant practice of all time? The breadsticks came wrapped and warmed. While I was eating, Chrissy kept attempting to stuff it back so I would quote, choke on that thing. We also ordered some fried lasagna that actually surprised me in how much I liked it. For a drink, I got something that perfectly encapsulated the whole vibe I gave off in the summer of 23, the Italian margarita. And for my main course, I wanted something that would prepare me for the experiences I was about to have in Italy. A true introduction to the cuisine of the entire country. Lucky for me, there was a dish called the Tour of Italy. Our salad came with another round of breadsticks, but here's where the dilemma comes in. I don't want to waste food. So if I don't eat the breadsticks, they're going to throw them away. But if I do eat the breadsticks, they'll just bring more out. But if I don't eat the breadsticks, then I waste the food. Now, as I was running my breadstick calculations, the waiter asked if we wanted cheese grated on the salad, but didn't tell us to say when, when we wanted them to stop. We realized that one of us needed to speak up, but by the time we did, there was already too much cheese... My bad. After too many breadsticks, a cheesy salad, and a very sugary margarita. I was hoping my entree would be a somewhat lighter pasta. Oh no. The Tour of Italy was a chicken parm, fettuccine Alfredo, and lasagna all on one plate. So with a nearly full stomach, I decided to dive in. Now, all of Garden's fettuccine Alfredo is one of the most ordered pasta dishes in the United States. And I've actually never tried it before. But while recording my first bite, I was unaware that I accidentally filmed it in slow motion. Maybe it's just this plate, but I don't know, man. Fettuccine Alfredo is just not for me. I suspect that it's because when I was a kid, I watched that episode of the office where Michael eats an entire bowl of fettuccine Alfredo and then runs a 5k right after. So whenever I taste the kind of heavy, creamy, rich bits of the pasta, I just picture running a marathon and getting sick. And you know, if that's your favorite pasta, maybe you'll think of that now too. Maybe I ruined it for you. Wouldn't that be something? That, combined with the chicken parm and lasagna, which were both very mediocre, I, along with everyone at the table, was stuffed. One thing to point out as well as I paid the check is that Olive Garden isn't cheap. Sure, the portions are huge, but compared to more quality Italian restaurants, 19 to $24 for a plate of pasta is pretty pricey. Stuffed to the brim, I still managed to polish off one last breadstick quickly on our way out before they could give us more. And just like that, our authentic Italian night out was coming to an end. You get it? Yeah, I got it. It looks like I'm holding up the side. Yeah, it looks like, yeah, I got it. You sure it's right? So a trip to Olive Garden was checked off the list. And next up, I had to go to Italy. Alright, it is 2 a.m. before we head to the airport at 340. I was out of laundry and cold, so I threw this on. And now it looks like I'm about to grate a bunch of papers on the Killmockingbird. You know, I said that thinking like, ha ha, what if I looked like an old English teacher? But I am now the appropriate age for a English teacher. So, I just, the jokes on me, I don't even have a real job and they do. Preparing for this trip was very new to me. I've never been to Europe. And other than Canada, I haven't even been outside the country before. Growing up, family vacations consisted of packing up the car and driving up to Wisconsin to hang out near a lake. Or camping in Michigan to hang out near a bigger lake. While I've been around most of the states now thanks to my job, I'm a pretty uncultured American. What do you mean the outlets are different? Why do they have different holes? And Italy, to the Italians in my family, has floated around as this dream vacation. Somewhere we could never afford to go, but maybe one day we would. So it's a fitting destination for my first trip overseas. We had a lot of time to waste on both flights, so I decided to watch one of the most famous triple features of all time. Civil Camera Hole, where you start with Civil War by Alex Garland, cleanse your palette with Joshua Conner of Challenger's fame in La Chimera, then finish it off with a viewing of Disney's holes. I watched through Civil War, but aside from that, the first flight to JFK wasn't too eventful. I got this blanket, I used the high-tech toilet, and soon we were in New York with a two-hour layover. Then back on a plane again for my first ever overseas flight. It had now been around 30 hours since I had any sleep, so it would make sense for my body to finally allow me to sleep on a plane for the first time in my life. We'll be landing at 9 a.m. in Naples, so I desperately needed some shut-eye before a full day in Italy. Lucky for me. After 28 years on this Earth, I finally fell asleep on a plane for 10 minutes. So I watched holes instead. Now I've been on many flights, mostly between LA and Chicago, but never one that served a meal. So I've never been able to answer the age-old question. What's the deal with airplane food? The food was actually not bad, even though it looks awful on camera here. And this flight had a much simpler toilet system, with very clear directions for those like me who are easily confused. Soon the sun rose on what would become my third calendar day without more than 10 minutes of sleep. After 15 hours of travel and nearly zero sleep, the plane descended on a completely flat Earth. We had made it to Italy. Oh, I forgot to mention that our friends drew an Amanda came to. So the four of us were ready to explore a new country. My first time traveling internationally other than Canada, which doesn't really count. Wow, I'm brimming with excitement over what could be different here. Italy, make room for one more white boy. Oh look, it's an Italian dog. I wonder if he has an accent. Everything is so incredibly new to my Midwestern American eyes. Local shops, Italian coffee, Sephora. Oh, hi. I am sleeping three hours. I'm going to spend one more day. We landed at 9 a.m. And to keep from destroying our sleep schedules for most of the trip, we decided to stay up until 6 p.m. Keep in mind that I skipped sleeping a few hours the night before the flight and didn't get any sleep on the plane. So by midday, I had been up for over 40 hours straight. Exploring the city felt like I was in some weird dream. Walking in the heat in a city that felt unfamiliar to me. With one singular mission keeping us awake. When it comes to food, Naples is famous around the world for its signature dish, pizza. There is a particular type of pizza snobbery that Naples flaunts to the rest of the world. As the proclaimed inventors of modern pizza, there is a specific and certified way to do it. But being weird about pizza isn't exclusive to Naples or even Italy as a whole. It's simple. If Italians lived in your city, wherever you're from, whatever your pizza looks like, your pizza is the best pizza. Are you from New Haven, Connecticut? I can't believe that people claim that New York City has the best pizza. I mean, come on, you guys are great. From New York? I mean, obviously you guys have the best pizza, right? Can you believe people from Chicago eat that deep dish bullshit? By the way, people who think that deep dish is the main pizza in Chicago, you are absolutely correct. It's actually illegal to cook a thin crust pizza and cook county. When deciding on where we were going to get our neapolitan pizza, the one and only real pizza, we were stuck deciding between two choices. One of the two proudly flaunted that Bill Clinton had visited once. Now we all know as a recent history that parading around Bill Clinton is a surefire way to get Americans on your side. He can play the saxophone, he cheated on his wife as the president of the United States with his employee who was 22 while he was 49 at the time, and he can also play the saxophone. So of course, we went with the other option. Damn, if only they had Liz Cheney there too, maybe I would have gone. All four of us were so tired that it felt like we might fall asleep at the table. But some claim that Naples has the best pizza in the world, and this is known to be one of the best in the city. So the anticipation kept me awake in alert. Would it be better than this plate from Olive Garden? Well, this is what the pizza looked like when it came out, so I'll let you decide. Number one. Okay, now number two. Which one looked better? One more time. Here's number two. And number one. Finally, it was time for my first bite of authentic Italian pizza. What the hell? Sorry, I must have added it in a clip of this doll from later in the trip. What the hell? It's just... What the fuck? Okay, it looks like that is part of the footage. This is a shot I got of a doll the next day. Am I being fucking haunted by a doll? Aside from the ghost doll, the pizza was very good. I've had similar Neapolitan-style pizza in the US, but none were this thin and like... What? But not in a bad way? Like the dough is so thin, it almost feels more like you're eating pasta with red sauce and cheese than it does eating in American slice. I don't think I've ever had Neapolitan-style pizza in the US that is quite like this, so they were right to be snappy. But was this a pizza that put the US to shame? Honestly, not even close. This is just another type of great pizza to me. Was it better than anything I had from Olive Garden? Yeah, by a mile. At this point I had been up for 48 hours, and I do not remember what happened after the pizza. I know we got to the hotel room, and I know that I slept. But even though it was delirious, it was a great first day in a new country. I know it's only 6 pm, but good night, Neapolitan. Tomorrow, we're headed to... We were taking a boat in the morning from Neapolitan to Capri, and because I go for a run every day, the only time for me to fit it in was at 5am before we left. But this resulted in one of the most peaceful mornings of my entire life. This is not me recommending to wake up early and run. Contrary to popular belief, you can go for a run and not make it everybody's problem. Soon enough, everyone was awake, and we got on the boat to go to Capri. But first, if you don't mind, a quick word from the sponsor of this video. I'm stuck in a big play to spaghetti. No, I don't want to talk about it. Thank you so far for sponsoring this video. So far is the next gen finance app helping you bank, borrow, and invest, so you can achieve all your ambitions all in one app. So far offers credit score monitoring, budget insights on your spending, and an overview of your net worth in a free to use platform. Listen guys, it's always good to keep track of your finances. Is that a hair on the back of the people? Is that my hair or someone else's hair? If you're looking to monitor your spending, especially with the holidays approaching, SoFi has you covered. You can link all of your accounts, even non-SoFi accounts, making it easy to know where you stand, what you spend, and how to hit your financial goals. You can easily get a bird's eye view of your cash, monthly savings, investments, what categories you're spending money on, upcoming recurring expenses, and credit score all in one mobile dashboard. And when you use SoFi credit score monitoring, you can earn SoFi rewards points every time your credit score goes up by five or more points, and it won't hurt your credit score. So sign up for SoFi's financial insights or credit score monitoring using the link in the description or the QR code on screen. Thank you SoFi now back to Eddie's big Italian adventure! Oh my god, dude, the hair's blonde. I don't want to be rude, but that's disgusting. As Naples slowly shrank behind us, we turn to the open ocean. The four of us had prepared for a relaxing sunny day on the island. But unfortunately, what we got that morning was a lot of wind and rain. Even on a cloudy day, the island looked incredible, and soon the ferry arrived. We got off the boat, and I was trying to take in the sights, but while riding a cable car up to the top of the island, this annoying-ass kid would not stop asking me questions. The first views of the island were beautiful, and as we walked around, it continued to be just that. Sorry, sorry. Fucking dull, Jesus. After grabbing a quick lunch, the clouds parted and the natural beauty of Capri passed in the sunlight. Maybe this is just me. But walking around somewhere this pretty sometimes fills me with an equal amount of guilt as it does joy. Growing up, a trip like this was completely impossible for me, and still is for a ton of people in my life. So doing it on my own, when my family is dreamed about it for years, adds a weight to the experience. Now, aside from the breathtaking beauty of Capri, I did actually have food that was worse than Olive Garden here. I spotted this snack in the window of a shop, and it was really bad. Like pulled out of the window display after hours, not even heated up and handed to me bad. And before Italians messaged me telling me that I picked the wrong place, or that it's meant for tourists like me, if you get to put us on blast for Olive Garden, I get to say that I didn't like this. Capri is also famous for their lemons, and we did have Sorbeto Ilimone. It tasted great, but I don't speak Italian, so I have no clue what this thing is. But if I'm measuring this against Olive Garden, I think atmosphere would be what Capri is bringing to the table. Am I really ready to say that a place like this has a better atmosphere than a restaurant chain started by a serial company in Orlando, Florida? Well, Olive Garden does have a never-ending pasta pass, so I don't know. I think I need more convincing. The next morning, it was time to head out of Naples and take a train all the way down to Sicily. What the hell is... Jumanji World? Whoops, no time. Gotta go to the train station. I took a moment to grab some snacks in the station before our train, and I spotted one of my favorite Italian original novels, Diario di Una Chiapa, with its hilarious main character Gregorio Hefflo, that even had Michael Jackson and Mickey Mouse. Now, traveling south by train was an absolute joy. I stared out the window taking in a long stretch of the Italian coast, snacking on some caccio e pepe chips that I got from the station. Now in Italian, the word caccio means cheese, e means and, while the word pepe means pepper. So, no clue what the flavor of the chips were. The bag wasn't in English, but they tasted great. To kill time, I also drew this portrait of Drew. You didn't draw that sort of photo, right? That's what I drew it. You traced it, but I didn't. No, I drew it myself. From memory. But I had no idea the fate that crept toward me as I headed to the bathroom. There, in front of my eyes, was a whole list toilet. Where does it all go? Where do I flush if there's no arrow that guide me? How do I flush if there's no hole? Where do I flush if there's no hole? Oh, it's a button on the ground. Oh, and the hole is on the rim. Got it. Sorry, maybe some clearer instructions, you know, for guy like me, but I got it, we're good. Now, when I mentioned a train to Sicily, you might have thought, but that's the thing the boot is kicking. How can the train go from the toes to the other part? Well, what if I told you they put the train on a boat? Now, I don't normally get seasick, and that continued to be true on this boat ride because I have a strong will and a great center of gravity. Looking out at Sicily for the first time felt like it should be a big moment for me. I grew up hearing about being Sicilian from Chicago Italians. It was beautiful, but like, I don't feel like I'm from here at all. But perhaps I'm not seasick because of the jeans passed down from my Sicilian ancestors. Or perhaps it's that I'm better than people with seasickness. Anyway, there was a concession stand on the boat and we enjoyed some Aaron Cheney and some wine. Now, Aaron Cheney in Italian means little oranges. The Italian cooking this must have been confused because he accidentally gave me this delicious ball of fried risotto. But back on land finally, Amanda gave Drew a new look. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Tower Mina Sicily, with only one night and one day before an overnight train to Rome, we began exploring immediately. Hello. It's up to you. Are you going to go get some meats or anything? The thing that America and Italy absolutely share is that if you're in a place where there are enough people visiting from out of town, you will see a minion somewhere. We got dinner and I had this crab nookie. It was fantastic and it was 20 euro. Meaning it was about 19 US dollars. Meaning it was 5 dollars less than the tour of Italy from Olive Garden. On the walk back from dinner to my horror, I found that they had imprisoned the minion. Oh, we also saw two of the cutest cats that I have ever seen on the walk. Ok, good night. One of Sicily's famous snacks is the Grenita, a frozen flavored dessert that is so clearly stolen from I.C. Sicily you ain't slick. Ok, it did taste very good though. My compliments, I tipped my hat to the chef. My compliments to the chef. In a local shop, we saw this hilariously shaped pasta. The gals on Facebook are going to love this one. Now, I'm sure that Drew assumed that I was going to narrate over this part, but instead, I think I'm going to play the original audio. We were headed down to the beach today, but if you were lounging in the sun on a beautiful Sicilian beach, the absolute last thing you'd want is an American YouTuber filming you in your bathing suit. So I didn't film any of that, but man, the stuff that you didn't get to see was really fun. I wish you could have been there. Returning to town, we were greeted by Tower Mina's cats. Unfortunately, we were not spending another night in Sicily, because we were catching an overnight train to Rome. The four of us were sharing a double bunk bed cabin on the train, which meant I was about to fulfill one of my greatest fantasies, sleeping with the roadwork ahead guide. Roadwork ahead? Yeah, I sure hope there's some head. But first, a quick trip to the bathroom, and what's this? I need a token to pee. Alright, well, I'll just use my card and any cash. Fine, let me just walk back to my bag then. Okay, I got the change, and let me just put it does not fit. Oh, okay, I get it now. I need to get some cash, to get some coins, to then insert a coin, to get a new coin to go to the bathroom. Got it. You know, Italy, if you want to stop people from simply going to the bathroom when they need one, do the decent American thing and make your city so uninhabitable for homeless people that they wouldn't be able to even access an outdoor bathroom like this. The coin thing is just barbaric. The idea of taking an overnight train in Europe was very exciting to me. Growing up, I was always so jealous of seeing people in movies who got to ride in fancy train cars. What kind of luxurious bedroom was in store for a... Why's everyone stopped in the doorway? Oh, because the room is the doorway? And you want to see my suitcase for a scale? Okay, tight sleeping arrangements, and once the train got going, walking to the bathroom was a real balancing act. Just as I drifted off to sleep, I was woken up by the noise of the train being stowed away on the ferry. Much like some of my ancestors, I was now leaving Sicily by boat. I began to ponder what it was like for them to travel, what their lives were like, what kind of YouTube video they were making at the time. Could it be 100 boys versus 100 girls? I built two massive circles and put 100 boys at one and 100 girls in the other. But they're dead, and I'm tired, so Rip Bozo, I'm gonna go pee before I go to bed and wake up near Rome. Was that one of the worst sleeps of my life? Yes. You know the age old saying, when in Rome, visit the most internationally famous tourist spots. First up was the Trevi found, so unbelievably crowded that I have no idea how Paolo had the elbow room to ask Lizzie McGuire on a date here. If you're immediately starting to type Eddie, that's not where Paolo asked Lizzie McGuire out on a date. He asked her out on a date in front of the gelato shop when she was holding a giant cheese wheel. Well I ask you this, how does it feel to be over 30 years old? How does 30 feel? Sure, the fountain was beautiful, but it was too chaotic to really enjoy. But if you don't get a photo next to a famous monument, it's like you never really win it all. Excuse me, do you mind taking a photo real quick? Next up we saw the Pantheon, Assassin's Creed. Assassin's Creed 2 trailer? Yeah? You want me to show you on my phone right now? Yeah. It's your out of the tall. It's your out of the tall. Oh yeah, well no, that's just some guy in a hoodie. Oh, he goes back in time. And for those of you who are about to comment, Eddie, that's not actually Assassin's Creed 2 trailer, that's Assassin's Creed Brotherhood. How does it feel to almost be 30? How does it feel to almost be 30 years old? Yeah. I'm sure you did. Rome was full of so much rich architecture and history. It felt like me and everyone else around me was walking through the past. Next were the Spanish steps, and yeah, sure Rome. Trick me to look at some fucking stairs as a tourist destination. Only stairs I'd travel for are the Joker's stairs. Everyone knows that about me. But one thing about Italian cities that I can't get over is how much food there is and how easy it is to access. Thousands of shops that let you just walk right up, have food in your hand in a few seconds, and on top of all that, like everything we've eaten here has been way cheaper than the US. And I understand I live in Los Angeles, where in some areas everything costs $1,000. But I've been around the country, I'm not even from here. I know what shit costs. But after barely getting any sleep on the train and a full day out in the sun, elbowing through crowds of tourists, it was time for my daily run. My jogging room was slow and delirious. I don't like to run near crowds, so I found a side street to do laps on. The problem was that it was very steep and had a really uneven pavement. Tired and out of it, I ran up, thin down, thin up, and down again. At one point, I thought, I should maybe put my phone away and focus on my footing. But seconds later, disaster. The money comes quick! My worst nightmare had become a reality. I fell and scraped my knee. My foot caught a very uneven piece of cobblestone, and I ate shit in front of two elderly Italian women walking a dog. I hit the ground so hard that I slid a couple of inches on the cobblestone. I was so embarrassed that before I could even feel the pain, I shot up, grabbed my phone off the ground and sprinted around the corner. Ow. Later that night, we walked on over to meet up with our group for a food tour we signed up for. Now I know, a food tour sounds like the most touristy thing you can do. But this actually ended up being the night that I felt the least like a tourist. Our tour guide was from Rome, and accompanied each stop with background on the city, each restaurant, and Italy as a whole. And the reason I felt less like a tourist is because you'll never get to know a place better than talking to somebody who actually grew up there. Spending an entire night hearing completely new stories about this country and its food hit me like a truck. Sorry, I forgot we were in Europe. Hit me like a dainty little bike in my walkable city. None of this history resembled what I learned in school. Was there more to Italy than being the henchmen of World War II while some Italians came to the US to make pizzas? How could history be happening if America wasn't involved? Could there possibly be things that have happened in the world that we have nothing to do with? The implications were unsettling to say the least. But after tonight, one thing is clear. True Italian authenticity is impossible to recreate anywhere other than Italy itself. There's just too much history behind every dish. So much so that certain regions of Italy have a true claim on specific foods. Carbonara in a place outside of Rome quote, isn't real carbonara. But this is true regionally around the world, even in a country as new as the United States. You can attempt to recreate a perfect New York slice in LA, but no matter how good it is, it'll never be the real thing culturally. I know it's even true internally. Try to feed me deep dish or Italian beef outside of the Chicago land area and I'll enter it with an eye of skepticism. And I don't think this seemingly universal human need to draw food lines is based on trying to hoard credit or to exclude. I think it's based in a sense of pride. Proof that the place you grew up is special at something, something that you can share with other people. There's an old proverb that comes out of this city. When in Rome, do as the Romans do. And to drew in Amanda, I guess the Romans run around fountains like this in this really weird way. But I observed that the Romans were going to bed. So after the four of us had a quick viewing of Despicable Me Too on Italian TV, I got some shot eye. After going to battle with my toilet this morning, after days and days of cheese and red wine, I felt like a warrior. And where do warriors in Rome go? To the shockingly loud espresso machine in their hotel room. After that, they hit one of the most historic monuments in human history, the GameStop in Naples. But that was too far. So we went to the Coliseum as our second choice. Excuse me, do you want to take a picture of us? Hey! The Coliseum finished in 100 AD. This massive structure houses 17 whole acres in its center. 150,000 observers used to fill these stands and literally nothing I just said was true. I just really wanted to piss off people who know way too much about Rome. That's right, no way to put that anger on them. It was just brewing in here. And now you gotta sit with it and let it fade away. The Coliseum is a very odd place to visit because it's hard to believe people were so mean to each other here. Nowadays, we don't perform such barbaric acts of violence for entertainment. We're more civilized than that. We let our government do it for a political gain. I mean, can you imagine a world where thousands of people are focused on one young Italian man with abs as he tries to kill out in the open? Different times, brother. Different times. One thing you may not know about the Coliseum is that everything is old as hell here. There's no Roku TV, there's no Fortnite, there's nothing like that. Nothing to ease my self-diagnosed ADHD that my doctor keeps insisting is, quote, not real. And that quote, a TikTok you agree with isn't enough for an Adderall prescription. After leaving the Coliseum with our lives, our time in Rome was coming to an end. Off to another train station. Now, even though we've been constantly moving, I'm starting to feel a lot more comfortable here. Despite what people say, Italy is a lovely place to visit. I contemplated this as I had a nice sandwich on the train while taking in the sights. Overall, it was a pretty peaceful ride. The Florence. The birthplace of the Renaissance. A city so ingrained in the history of human art that, oh, who's this guy? Go for it. Florence is so full of history, art, and architecture to go see. But I had a very specific stop on my checklist. In 2018, Conan O'Brien and Jordan Schlanski went on a trip to Italy for Conan on TBS. It was a multi-episode event that was one of my personal favorite pieces of late-night TV that I've ever seen. And when they were in Florence, they stopped at Jordan's favorite sandwich spot. Conan got this very simple sandwich with mozzarella and prosciutto. I have thought about this sandwich for six and a half years. Then I understand, there's nothing that special about this sandwich. But to stand in the streets of Florence, order it, and hear this crunch. Has been a weird fixation of mine for nearly my entire twenties. So finally, I was going to have it for myself. As I headed there, I thought about how thankful I was for Conan's body of work. The years of laughs, being a huge inspiration for me to get into entertainment, and... It's closed. I came all this way, and it's closed. Oh, fuck you, Conan. Why are you so tall, by the way? Be regular-sized. So rather than having my sandwich, we headed to a museum instead. You can tell it's AI because the fingers are kind of weird. Oh look, I'm Italy. I have a long-running history of making beautiful art. Cool. Yeah, sure, the Renaissance is something. But have you ever seen grave digger fucking spin out in the staple center? I have. And just wait until you get a roast from the king of the roast, Drew Gooden. What about something like... fits? What do you guys think? I just thought of it. Other than the old religious paintings, there was one piece of art here that I'm pretty positive you're familiar with. Now I know many of you have already seen thousands of images of David. But there are a whole lot of details you can notice when you're up close and personal. Later that day, after seeing the Dwomo, we decided to duck into a random wine bar. Luckily, it had decent prices and a half way decent view. And it wasn't just the table we were at. The bathroom is being added to Eddie's top 10 lists of places to piss in the world. As we explored the city further into the night, I really started to enjoy Florence more than most places I visited. During this trip, it feels like I'm water skiing across the country. Rocketing on top of the surface, never having real time to stop and sink deeper. No place gave me this feeling more than wrapping up our only night in Florence. Luckily, after this, we'll be in one place for three days. But part of me is saddened by the fact that there's so much I can't see. To me, that's the worst part about being a tourist. You mostly get to see a place as great as hits, but those hits can sometimes be like theme park attractions rather than a true piece of the culture. Oftentimes, my favorite part of traveling is not getting my photo at a spot that everyone knows. It's the little moments when you're allowed to see a glimpse of the real place behind the attractions. Something you'd only experience from visiting longer or even better, being welcomed in from somebody who grew up there. Unfortunately, I have neither in Italy, so all I can do is take in whatever I pass as best I can before zooming to the next spot. I hope to one day be able to spend more time in Florence, but for now, a kiss could night. Oh. No! Any? No! No! Huh? This morning, we're headed out to the countryside for three full days. But I had one more thing that I had to do in Florence. After six years of dreaming about this sandwich that I saw on TV once, I finally got to order it. I'm going to go to the next station. Six years waiting for this review, and it was pretty good. A lot of good sandwiches here in Italy, so it was one of them. Chrissy and I met Drew and Amanda at a car rental place after the sandwich. We were headed to the Tuscan countryside. Now, if you're rushing to comment, Eddie, Florence is also Tuscanny. How does it feel to be right? How does it feel to be smarter than me? Rural Tuscanny is another part of Italy that you've seen a lot of in media. Whether it's Russell Crowe, mourning the tragic death of his wife and son and gladiator, or that picture that you throw out that comes with your picture frame. I'm going to put a picture in it. You don't need to give me an example. I know what a photo looks like. But this spot is also special to me because rural Tuscan olive gardens are the exact thing the olive garden is trying to replicate. Olive Garden actually advertised that they had somewhat of a cooking school and Tuscanny at one point, but I just looked it up and it seems like the closest thing to prove of it is an alleged ex-employee on Reddit. Claiming they mainly got flown to Tuscanny by the company as like a vacation, and they just took a regular cooking class like here and there. One thing that's insane to me is the cost to stay here was under $200 a night, not per person, total. I've stayed in a Spring Hill Suites in Cady, Texas that cost more than that. To be exact, it was $174 a night, and part of the deal was three on-property cats. Later that night, Chrissy cooked us a wonderful meal. Drew helped in the kitchen, Amanda tended to the cats, and I sat there thinking about how thankful they must be to know me. Yeah, it must be nice. The next morning I went for my run and was mesmerized by the nature around me. Being here in this country for a while now has been so enjoyable, but knowing Italy more as a real place had never left me feeling less Italian in my entire life. I grew up under Chicago Italians who were proud of being Sicilian, but to be honest, I knew next to nothing about this place until I actually came here. Sure, there were traces of Italy, but it had mostly been diluted through generations in the US. I was lost. No, wait, I'm actually fucking lost. Where am I? Oh my fucking god, I know where the house is. Drew, where's Drew? Or Chrissy, I mean, Chrissy, where are you? Oh my god, I'm gonna die out here. Nevermind, found it. Turns out, when you get lost, just go directly back the same way you can't. That is what paths are for. After experiencing much of what Italy's tourism had to offer, the silence of the countryside allowed me to see clearly for the first time. Something like Olive Garden with its fetuccine Alfredo and chicken nuggets is not authentically Italian. But this entire trip, I've viewed myself as some sort of middleman, an outsider viewing in, comparing and contrasting until I came to a final decision. But an American visiting touristy areas of Italy for nine days cannot simply know the culture of an entire country. And that's when it hit me. When it comes to food, Olive Garden is a barely Italian, suburban ghost of something more authentic, parading itself around the US, making money for a corporation. I am only a little Italian. I am from the suburbs of Chicago. My childhood was based on existing on the sidelines of what I'm culturally connected to, and my past attempts to make fun of or criticize other restaurant chains has only made them profit even more. So much so that I've been offered money on multiple occasions to recreate those trips or appear at events as one big advertisement. And uh...no, no thank you. I came to this country hoping to find better quality food, atmosphere, and a heightened experience of what the restaurant is trying to imitate. And I did. But I have no right to pass judgment. Because in a way, I am just like Olive Garden. I dared to stare in the face of this chain, and glaring back at me was a 28 year old Selenial YouTuber with a mustache. Devastating. I'm going to bed. After an emotional night, drew new exactly what would cheer me up this morning. You thinkin' when I'm thinkin'? Boys trip! When I am with my friends, I'm ready and I'm the quenched. My phrasing is amy-loom. And there you were. I've been fumbling for weeks since I've become eyes on you. Turned into a silent fool and I lost my words in my- Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Boys trip. Boys trip. It was so nice to have time to be just us guys. Do guy stuff. I was in such a good mood that I even let Drew drive, pay for the groceries, and carry them back to the car all by himself. And after fondling some balls with my friend, I was thinking with a fresher perspective on the situation. The choice between something authentic and a giant corporation isn't an identity. It's a choice that we make over and over. And to be honest, especially in America, it's impossible to avoid choosing a massive brand over the little guy all the time. I do think it's good to try though. To branch out and try new things that aren't decided for you by like 40 CEOs. Because while it can be fun to indulge in unlimited breadsticks, if that's all you ever know, you're robbing yourself of expanding your world. Chrissy started making us this incredible breakfast spread. And it got me thinking about the fact that whether it was Olive Garden or a tin of airplane food or an incredible Italian pasta. What really mattered at the end of the day was that I was sitting across from people that I wanted to share a meal with. And that's what my time in Tuscany gave to me. Like when for some reason, the four of us watched through an entire history of Ellen's career. All of her comedy specials, both of her sitcom pilots, her big moment coming out, the start of her talk show, her being mean, everything. I do not know why. We didn't even really like it. But doing it together was enough. Tomorrow is our final day in Italy. But Ellen would stick with us forever. After driving back up and arriving in Florence, we tried to call a cab to get to the train station. It was a fairly long walk and the rain was coming down pretty hard. But due to the rain, none were available. So we began our trek ready to get wet until we saw the nearest shop with umbrellas. I wish we do all of our rainbows. Okay, be honest, guys. Do you think it was obvious to people that we were a couple of American tourists? 20 minutes of walking through the rain later, we finally made our train to Venice. A city famous for its beautiful canals, its romantic gondola rides in the sun, it's one of those cities where you can close your eyes as a visitor and picture what your day would look like before even getting there. Unfortunately, due to the weather, that picture didn't exactly match up to the real thing. This was one of the most chaotic city walks of my entire life. It was cold, wet, and a gust of wind would rush in and nearly sweep you off your feet and into the canal. I'm sorry to report that we even lost some brave soldiers along the way. But even in the cold, it was undeniable that the city was still beautiful. I just wish it was a bit nicer to look at stuff like this without it feeling like this. So I think it's pretty clear that after all this time, I've gotten a pretty extensive experience out of the nation of Italy. It would be naive and insane to say that I know the country well, but I definitely know it much better than I did before. So the only thing left is one last supper. The Illinois Olive Garden was much more similar to the ones I was familiar with. Instead of a remodeled Broadway federal, this beautiful Tuscan villa sat in the parking lot of Woodfield Mall. I was joined yet again by my brother, Tony. Sitting down, I was ready for one last authentic Italian experience. You've been quiet for a long time. I'm just gonna shut up and let me think about you, that's... I gotta match. As we ate our breadsticks, I left one sitting on the table to bookmark our progress so they wouldn't refill them and give us more to eat. Our food was fine, but during our meal, I couldn't help from ease dropping on the table right next to us. There was a family sharing a lunch together and they were having an absolute blast. I paid the check while quickly eating our last breadstick, meaning we didn't waste a single one. And as I did, I heard the family ask for those little shooters for dessert. The waiter kindly asked if they meant espresso and they got all excited. Did I stand up and laugh at them with my newfound Italian knowledge? Scoff at them for not knowing what they might perceive as authentic Italian is a lie from the Cheerio B? No, of course not, because they were enjoying themselves. And that's the thing about indulging in things that are inauthentic, or corporate, or fake. Is that sometimes you and the people you care about are the ones that bring the value. So whether it's a chain restaurant, a local business, or just eating dinner at somebody's house, these moments of connection keep us going. And I hate to admit, even though it is a very big brand, you can connect over unlimited breadsticks. Even though, you know, I prefer just my suggestion maybe eat at a better place than Olive Garden. So maybe after this video, you text a friend and ask if they want to get dinner. You stop by your mom's house and make her soup. I don't know, dude. Do it for them, but also do it for you. Because you'll find when passing food around the table for just a brief moment. When you're there, you are, and get ready for it here it comes. Family. Rufi. Somebody come with us!