And the winner of the best YouTuber of the year award is Eddie Burbank. Thank you, thank you. Oh, come on. So long. Please take your seats. Thank you, please. Now, not only am I honored by this award, I also think I deserve it. But unfortunately, I cannot accept. Listen, I know. I know. But the world needs to see another one of my videos first. That's right. Yep, that's what I'm talking about. Today, I want to take you back to February 26, 2017, the 89th Academy Awards. The show's going great. Jimmy Kimmel's hosting, so America's got no complaints. And they're about to present best picture. As anyone knows with the Oscars, best picture is the moment of the night. It's the most important moment for movies that year. So the presenters come out and they announce La La Land. That's it. That's our movie of the year. Way to go, guys. Except, oops. Whoopsie, there's a problem. There's a mistake. Moonlight, you guys won best picture. Moonlight winner. This is not a joke. The actual winner of best picture is Moonlight. We all remember this moment. And I feel for everyone involved. I feel bad for the people who thought they won for La La Land. I feel even worse for the people who made Moonlight and got their spotlight stolen by this awful moment. But you can't deny it was one of the most entertaining things that happened on TV in the last decade. It was such a shock that everyone online was talking about the Oscars for the next week. The Ward Show ratings are on the decline. So with something that was so entertaining and shocking, you'd think maybe a Ward Show would loosen up a little bit and be a little bit more open to the idea of kind of messing up because it would boost the ratings up. I'm not talking about planning mistakes, but seeing the scenes of the prestigious show made people interested. But that's not how it works at award shows. They are painfully awkward a lot of the times. I've sprinkled in with some moments of comedy, some moments of cringe. I'm going to moonwalk my way off the stage right now. A mix of both and then a lot of awkward boring presentation. And I think it's because there's this tug of war going in award shows between prestige and entertainment and neither of them are winning. So first I want to talk about the prestige. A lot of people I think incorrectly think a lot of artists are the elites, I mean they are, you know, Richard is the elite. But they go to the award shows just to win, just to feel good, and the only reason that they show up is to be other people. When in reality with most award shows in entertainment, there is a lot riding on the award. Let's use the Academy Awards, the Oscars for example. You're an actor who has nominated that year. So you go there hoping to win. If you do win the award, at least the next couple years of your career can be carried on just one line. Academy Award winner, Blank, and fill in your name there. I don't know your name, unless you're watching back editing and it's me. Hi Eddie, put your name right there. Putting that on trailers or on posters is worth a lot of money. So even if you think award shows are stupid, it allows you the opportunity to work with better people, to be in bigger or better movies. So you don't really have to care about the award shows to still want to win. The same goes for something like the Grammys. As a musician, you can use Grammys as kind of negotiating power for more money from labels, to promote your songs. Those single award winner lines are worth a ton. So if you're going to win a award show as a nominee, it is a very important night, whether you care about the middle award or not. And that's where the tug of war comes in. Because a very serious room, where people are there to see if their careers will be propelled forward, is not the place for comedy and entertainment. I think sometimes it can breed a unique form of comedy with either cringe comedy or kind of shock value comedy. Cringe would be something like John Travolta saying Adele de Zim for Adina Manzell. The wickedly talented one and only Adele de Zim. And shock comedy would be something like Ricky Jervais at the Golden Globes. You know, he goes there and the public loves it because he roasts a bunch of Hollywood elites in front of all of America. But in the room, it's ultra awkward because he's making jokes about people that they know or about the actors themselves. And a lot of people just don't like being roasted publicly on TV. Also, those are moments I don't know if you guys do this, but you see how well people take jokes about themselves. And that's how I decide how cool they are. If I see someone get made fun of it, the Grammys are Oscars and they keep a straight face. I'm instantly like, well, they're lame. They think of themselves too highly. But I would say for entertainment value, the best award shows are probably the Grammys and the Tonys or any of the side award shows that do music. Because live performance and shows can be entertaining at these nights because they're watching and celebrating artists. The Emmys, Golden Globes and Oscars, however, are almost always awkward and they have a thing that I fucking despise. It's award show talk. You know what I'm talking about, right? Where they like, shove Ben Affleck out there with another person and he's like, movies. They bring us together. They inspire us. And sometimes they make us go a little too crazy on the popcorn. And you're sitting there like, is that, is that even a joke? Was I supposed to laugh there? We don't need this intro every time. Occasionally we get lucky with something like Kristen Wagon-Will Ferrell. But those are small moments of comedy mixed in. Also really quick before we move on, this is New Yikes merch. It's the Spring launch and I'm super super proud of it. Here's a lot of the stuff you can go to yikeshop.com if you want to buy some of it. We made a Yikes floral sweatsuit with embroidered flower joggers. Check these things out. So award shows have always been awkward. But something is clearly different now because ratings have been shooting down for the last 10 years. People just don't really want to watch award shows anymore. Every year there are less and less people who are interested. And I think there are a couple of factors to that. First off, there are so many award shows. We've got the Oscars. We've got the Golden Globes. We've got the Emmys. We've got the Independent Spirit Awards. We've got the Tonys. We've got the Country Music Awards. We've got the MTV Awards. We've got the Kids Choice Awards. There are award shows that are everything in music. There are award shows that are specific categories in music. And most of these are just on cable and not live streaming anywhere else. How the hell in this day and age do we still have so many TV show live events that are not easily accessible either on YouTube, on Twitch, or one of the streaming services that all of these companies own? I'm sure you've had it before. Whether it's an award show or some kind of big event you see it trending, you're like, oh shit, I didn't pay for cable. Because I'm under 60, so I don't know what to do. You're googling, where do I see a live stream of it? Is it on Twitch? No, I have to see this illegal live stream. So you pull up, I mean, I've never done it. But you have, you pull up a very blurry live stream and then it cuts out halfway through. It's a miserable experience to try and watch it. But other than just accessibility, I think Gen Z to Gen X just doesn't really give a shit about awards anymore. Because yes, we all want to see our favorite artists get appreciated and recognized for their work. But since a lot of us were kids, we have just seen the wrong people win awards constantly. And that's because if you didn't know, like all of these award shows are corrupt. Like all of them. It's not like ultra rigged, but it's like a little rigged every year. So why the fuck would we care who wins? If you don't know what I'm talking about, I want to introduce you to a clip of Denzel Washington at the Golden Globes when he won a Golden Globe. Freddie feels he invited me to the first Hollywood foreign press lunch and he said they're going to watch the movie. We're going to feed him. They're going to come over. You're going to take pictures with everybody. You're going to hold the magazines, take the pictures. And you're going to win the award. I won that year. The Golden Globes and Oscars really are just about a campaign on how much products, food, events, and celebrity meetups you can give the members of the Academy. I think one of the biggest cases, not of insider corruption because I have no idea, but the vote just being wrong, happened in music a little over half a decade ago. It was when in 2014, Macklemore and Ryan Lewis in different rap categories beat Kendrick Lamar, Kanye, Drake, Jay-Z, and you know, you look back at that and you're like, what the fuck happened? Huh? The thrift shop guys? Beat out all of them. So growing up and hearing about how wrong the Grammys get at all the time or how the Golden Globes and the Oscars can be rigged by, you know, smoothing the people of the Academy. There's not really a built-in trust for these awards. And I get decades ago, before we heard any of that, you just kind of respected that these institutions got it right. But now with the internet, we can just go like, hey, wait a minute. Who's voting for these? Why do we respect these people more than our own word? So I was looking up the Grammys and the Golden Globes and the Emmys and the Oscars. And I don't really know how you would fix their voting systems. The Oscars are made up of a committee of people in the film industry, which are good people to vote on what they think is good. But they also know everyone else in the film industry who's submitting films for the Oscars. The same goes for the Emmys and the Grammys. If you want people in the industry to vote for the awards, they're gonna do handshake deals with other people. There's no way of avoiding it, because people want to hook up people they know. It's kind of how most industries work. You know, you might want the best picture to win every year, but picture you're one of the people voting. And there's a movie you like slightly more than your best friend's movie. Are you gonna vote for that one like you're supposed to? Or would it be really nice to see your best friend win an Oscar? It's just how human nature is. But if you give the vote to the public, you know, it's just gonna get flushed with spam for a lot of things. I don't know how it would happen, but if you did popular votes for the Oscars to vote online, somehow BTS would win every award. And I don't even know how that's possible because they wouldn't be nominated, but they'd win. So I don't really know how you fix that, but I do think I know how you make the shows a little more entertaining. You just bring the prestige down a little bit. You make everything a little bit looser. You know, it's just this kind of bullshit where very important Hollywood event that we should maybe knock down a peg. I love when the Oscars do live music performances for movies that year. That is super entertaining and we should keep that up. And we should eliminate award show talk. I don't want to see Jeremy Renner reference that Jennifer Lopez has the Globes 2 at the Golden Globes. Yeah. I have the nails. Yeah, get after it. You've got the Globes 2. Ew, Jeremy Renner. Ew, dude. Go shoot an arrow. It's far away from me. I think maybe as a society we're a little over the prestige, but we still want to see artists recognized for good work. So I think there's always going to be a place for these things, but if they want to keep making money and not tanking in ratings, something's got to change. I would also like to suggest there is one perfect award show. And that's the Kids Choice Awards. Hear me out. People who grew up on the Kids Choice Awards. Respect the award because they looked up to it when they were young. If that Nickelodeon glow, it's fucking awesome. The show does not take itself seriously. I watched Jack Black crush it when I was a kid hosting those shows. And I would kill to win one of those awards while also getting slimed. The prestige is not down a peg and the entertainment is up. They slimed people at those awards. I propose that the Oscars and the Grammys and the Tonys and Emmys take a little bit from Kids Choice Awards and start sliming people who win awards. It's fun. It's fun. They get to give their speech, whether it's political or about, you know, like a dead relative and how they're making them proud. And then they get slimed. Oh my God. In the lead order to Capriots, like the world is dying and we're literally not doing anything to help. Slime! Are you kidding me? So thank you for watching this weird dumb video. I just really wanted to make it. The Yikes stuff, as I mentioned, would love if you supported me. And now it's sponsor time! Hello? I'm sure you all know based on my old Raycon ads that RayJ used to be my roommates and then he died and was a ghost. And now I am very sad to say that RayJ, as a ghost, has also died. What you will be hearing right now is a pre-prepared eulogy that RayJ wrote himself and told me to read just in case he also died as a ghost. I will be listening to the Circle of Life from the newer Lion King in my ears. RayJ also requested that so I will not be able to hear whatever you say. Come on, Eddie. You got this. Raycon, your buds give you six hours of playtime, seamless Bluetooth pairing, more bass and a more compact design for a comfortable noise isolating fit. If you're trying to take a break from screens but don't want to feel totally unplugged, Raycon wireless earbuds are the best way to bring your favorite content with you wherever you go. I use these every day when I run. I run every day. I'm very fit. I've actually lost ten pounds recently and they're great. I actually really enjoy these. And RayJ used to love what I'd say that. I'd say I love the Raycons and he goes, thanks, dude. And he'd say it like that, which I always thought was kind of rude, but that's fine. Raycon offers their wireless earbuds in a range of fun colors and patterns with a variety of fit options and no dangling wires or stems. The company was co-founded by RayJ and celebrities like Snoop Dogg and Mike Tyson also wear them just like me. One day Snoop Dogg and Mike Tyson could be just like me if they wear these earbuds. So if you would like... If you would like to support me and Raycon, click the link in the description box below or go to buyraycon.com slash Eddie for 15% off your order. Thank you. We will miss you, RayJ. This fit is so clean. Are you fucking kidding me? So I'm sorry. I'm good by RayJ.