As the 2020s have progressed, delivery apps like Uber Eats, Postmates, GrubHub and DoorDash have exploded in popularity. And if you use these apps frequently, you've probably had an experience just like me since COVID started. You're not in the mood for anything particular that night, so you scroll through Restaurant after Restaurant looking for something that'll catch your eye. And one restaurant finally does. But not because it's what you're in the mood for. It's because something about this restaurant feels off. The app says it's 0.1 miles away, but you don't recall ever passing this store or seeing it storefront. And the pictures on the app don't look like a local restaurant near you. They almost look like stock photos. Even the restaurant name doesn't seem like a local family restaurant, it feels like something that would be on a neon sign in a white millennial's taco restaurant. Something like Taco about it or love tacos or you're tacoing me crazy. Now some people might already be aware as I was of what these restaurants are. But when I decided to make a video on it, the rabbit hole kept sinking deeper and deeper. So today, I want you to follow me down this rabbit hole of food and restaurants, but I must warn you. It's sticky. So bring a baby wipe or some hand sanitizer or stand next to the sink and keep washing your hands. 912 on your Monday from postmates to Uber Eats, even GrubHub, more people skipping eating out and bringing the restaurant experience home. But how that food is prepared is getting a big change. More competing companies are now teaming up using ghost kitchens to prepare your meals. Now what is a ghost kitchen? Well, the definition can be a little bit broad and too general because the business model is very new and ghost kitchens come in a few different forms. But in YouTuber fashion, I have the Google definition. So apologies, I'm going to sound for a second like a eighth grader giving a book report. The Google definition of a ghost kitchen is a business operating from low rent or non-commercial premises that prepares food ordered online for delivery directly to customers. Which is a true definition, but also doesn't sound like anything specific to me or give me a clear picture of what their business is. However, as I've been researching this video, I've boiled down ghost kitchens coming in mainly three different forms. Some take place in something called a virtual restaurant kitchen, others make their food in mobile trailers, and some are in existing restaurants. But I want to start with virtual restaurant kitchens. So a virtual restaurant is a restaurant that exclusively sells through delivery apps. The actual building it's made in is a virtual restaurant kitchen that houses many virtual restaurants. And nothing showcases one of these places better than this TikTok iPhone from a guy named Clayton who is delivering for Uber Eats. So this is what is called a ghost kitchen. It is a select set of restaurants that are featured foods cooked here. As an e-reads driver, we come up here. You select your restaurant. Mine is supposed to be drunken dumpling. And then my order was Omar here. And what's crazy is, then for now I'm waiting. There's your order board. And then once that's ready, one of these lockers will unlock. And the food will be ready. And this will become our future. I mean, it's already our present, but this will become like every all great. Yay future technology. Now there are definitely cases of one person owning a virtual restaurant kitchen, but these places are mainly owned by tech startups. So there is a chance that a pizza place that you get delivery food from and a Chinese food place that you also get delivery food from are not two separate restaurants, but one kitchen owned by the same company. But I started to wonder how common these places actually were. Could I find one near my neighborhood? And I did. I won't be showing the address, but I sat down at my computer to look at delivery apps until I found a specific address that had multiple restaurants in it. And if you look here, as I started to go through just Uber Eats, isn't it? I started to find that this address had a lot of restaurants in it. If I would ask you what you thought a lot of restaurants running out of one kitchen would be, it kind of depends on how familiar you are with ghost kitchens and virtual restaurants. So you might be thinking, I don't know, two is a lot of restaurants. Potentially four. Could it be like five or six? So I counted the individual restaurants on Uber Eats that came up for this specific address. And I found 10 restaurants running out of the same kitchen. Does that sound like a lot of kitchens to you? Because if it doesn't, I lied. There are 20 restaurants running out of this one location. And if you're thinking to yourself, that's not that many. I lied again. There are 30 restaurants running out of this single location. And one final time I lied again. There are 44 restaurants on Uber Eats that all share this one address. And you have food places ranging in completely different cultures and food types. There's a dim sum place. There's a curry place. There's burger places, pasta places, pizza places, chicken and waffles, taco places. And this was actually discovered by my girlfriend, Chrissy. She started looking at individual menus in this one location and finding that some of the items looked really similar. So I picked a random item from one of the restaurants that was featured here. It's a restaurant called the cod father. And I found a beer battered cod sandwich for 1695. And right here it says in the description, it is a beer battered north Atlantic cod, slaw, red and white cabbage, lemon herb aioli, and a brioche bun. So I looked at another obvious choice at the same address at a sunset beach fish and chips. And would you look at that? There's a beer battered cod sandwich for 1695. That is a beer battered north Atlantic cod and slaw, red and white cabbage, lemon herb aioli, and a brioche bun. Interesting. Two separate restaurants on Uber Eats appearing to be completely separate businesses selling the same item with the same description for the same price. So I looked at another place that had a beer battered cod for 1695, same description. And I looked at another place and another place until I had filled up my card with nine identical beer battered cod sandwiches. And I'm going to go with Chrissy to pick it up at the same exact location. That's right, we're going to drive to one kitchen to pick up the same sandwich from nine separate restaurants. By the way, the sandwich is 1695 for just the sandwich. So I'm about to pay, what's that times nine? I'm not. I'm going to do it in a calculator. You can't force me to do math on the top of my head. I could have done it now, but I need to find my phone. All right, so if I just do a quick math on here before fees are involved, I will be paying just $152.55 to potentially try the same sandwich nine times. So Chrissy and I started the drive that took about, I don't know, 20 minutes to get there. Oh my god, those beautiful. When we pulled up to the restaurant, it had the name Chibo. What confused me is that when you look it up, Chibo is a local restaurant in LA. It's been open since 2002, I believe. But when you look on Google Street View, the storefront used to say virtual dining concepts, which is one of the startups in the ghost kitchen industry. Now to be honest, as we walked up, I was a little bit nervous because I don't think one of the regular employees would care, but I also doubt somebody has ordered from nine different restaurants with the same item. The order kind of makes it obvious what I'm doing. So I walked up to him and said, Hi, we're picking up for like nine orders under Eddie. And the guy was like, oh yeah, no problem. Do you want me to put it all in one bag? Is that okay? So we waited for a little bit, here's us waving just in case we're saying hello to you, specifically watching we're waving to you. And then finally we got the order. So it seems so casual. They did not care that we ordered from nine different places and it was the exact same one. So we drove back bags in hand, left bag hanging lower than the right bag. But before we bust these bags wide open, a quick word from our sponsor. Thank you all for coming to this press briefing today. As many of you already know, I am now the president of the United States because Joe Biden lost to me in a wager match of Overwatch 2. Now that I'll be traveling and doing business all over the world because I'm the new president, our sponsor today. Babel is perfect. Babel is one of the top language learning apps in the world. It's intuitive lessons help you learn a language through real life conversations. Lessons are designed by real language teachers and Babel offers a 20 day money back guarantee. Joe actually just texted me that he got the app and he has a little voice message to share with the country. I bet Joe. I bet we're friends. Babel also teaches real world conversations. Lessons prepare you to have practical conversations about travel, business, relationships, Overwatch 2 and more. If you're going to travel to a country or experience a culture in any way, the best thing you can do is learn their language ahead of time. So click the link in the description for 60% off your subscription and that's coming from me. Eddie Burback, president of the United States. Now back to the video. When we got back and I started to unpack them, I noticed that all of the packaging was the exact same. All right, so let's start with just two of them. I've got the rest of the packages right here, but they also weren't labeled, so I have no idea which two restaurants these are from. This could be the codfather. This could be sunset beach. This could even be burger bitch. First one is in this wrapping. Here's the thing. I mean, it looks good. It looks good. It looks like a good fish sandwich. These are two different fish sandwiches from two different restaurants. Legally, I do not want to say that these are the same sandwich, so I won't do that. You think that covers me? The bun feels cheap for $16. Oh yeah. It's good. I now know what this fish sandwich tastes like. Legally, I don't want to say that this is the exact same sandwich, but my taste buds are saying this is the exact same sandwich. Then we decided to take every single sandwich out to show them all at once. What we are looking at here are nine sandwiches from nine restaurants that all claim to be different businesses when you look at them. And I decided for science, I was going to take a bite of every single fish sandwich and give a thumbs up if it tasted similar to the last one. Now as I've aged, I don't do as well with greasy foods, specifically something like a fish or chicken sandwich. And I can't tell you the toll that this took on my body later that day. I didn't even capture it. I was tired. Things happened in the bathroom. I will never speak of ever again. But I will say that my opinion was these nine sandwiches tasted exactly the same to me. But I think it's really important to mention that this restaurant is taking up 44 slots on delivery apps. They are competing directly with small businesses, some of which are owned by families. Now I don't know if Chibo the restaurant owns this or in virtual dining concepts bought Chibo to use their name as a brand. But would you be surprised to learn that there is another Chibo within four miles of the one that I just showed you. And together they take up 77 restaurant slots on Uber Eats. So whether or not Chibo is its own new company or just a front for virtual dining concepts, I want to take a second to talk about VDC. Virtual dining concepts or VDC is a major ghost kitchen company. And when you go to their website they have a collection of brands that they work with. You have Mr. Beastburger which we will talk about later. You have phase subs which finally answers the question, can my sandwiches just be made by gamers? But as I was reading the brands, something caught my eye. MassCar refuel. So I clicked on it and it opened up NASCAR refuel wings and you could go right to their website. So clearly NASCAR refuel is a NASCAR themed ghost kitchen that sells primarily bone-in wings. Now if you go to the full menu you can see that they offer five flavors. We've got barbecue, we've got honey garlic, we've got sweet chili, cajun and buffalo. Mmm my tummy's already rumbling. Is that a magnitude seven earth flaking California? No, that's just my tummy for NASCAR wings. They even come in this fun little NASCAR box so you know the food's going to get to you fast. So then I thought you know if VDC can let NASCAR make a unique wing place. This place can't be that bad. By the time food arrives to your table at a restaurant you know the people who have made the food have already jumped through a ton of hoops. The person who created the business already had the idea to create a restaurant either paid their own money or got a loan from a bank to get the building rented out. They then had to hire people, make sure everybody was trained, make sure people liked the menu, cultivate a successful business and pay the bills every month. So maybe this could be a good way to not gatekeep recipes with how much influence you have or how much capital you have to open up a restaurant. Maybe this will be a great way into having people try new foods. Hmm. VDC has another wing place right there called wing squad. Wing squad is a buffalo wing themed ghost restaurant that serves primarily bonin, bonin wings with flavors like barbecue, honey, garlic, sweet chili, cajun, and buffalo. Are these these exact same fucking wings? Okay so I got NASCAR refuel. So I was going to immediately cut to ordering NASCAR refuel and wing squad to eat them both and see if they tasted exactly the same. But when I filled out both my orders I went ahead and ordered NASCAR refuel and when I tried to check out with the cart for wing squad they told me that it wasn't available in my area. So now instead of proving a point for my video I just have NASCAR wings. The only thing I care about is if they come in the cool box. I will be so mad if they don't. Yes! Here are the wings. They look pretty good to be honest. I'll give it to NASCAR. It's good. It's good. I never said the ghost kitchen food is bad. It's good. It's good the neighbors bill. But I want to get back to VDC's website because they seem to be the leading brand in working with content creators and celebrities to create ghost franchises. Hi I'm Robador, a fellow restaurant tour and the founder of virtual dining concepts. A ghost franchise is when one of these companies utilizes virtual restaurants and ghost kitchens around the country to instantly start up a national brand. So you pretty much snap your fingers and you have a fast food company across the whole country. These brands offer you an A to Z solution. All you have to do is choose the brands, the great celebrities that are going to become your market partners with you. And to get a look on how these ghost franchises start we can look at the page on their website that advertises to creators that want to work with them. So this business model is advertised as a new way to connect with fans. Oh my god I didn't know it was for the fans. So step one is to create your vision. They give you a more intimate and experimental way to connect with your followers. Finally I can get intimate with Mr. Beast by shoving a Beastburger or Carl's Deluxe down my gullet. Just absolutely gargling beast style fries. Then you work with them to create a menu. I would assume it's more so like hey you want to sell pizza? Do you want to sell pepperoni or sausage? Then they say to market the brand. To use your social following and platform to connect with your fans beyond merchandise. Use the food in your content. See guys it's about connecting to fans. This is not a soulless way to cash in on your fans by selling them food that you didn't create. Okay it's not about making money. So let's see step four. I gotta stop getting tricked by corporate speak. I thought Mr. Beast wanted to be intimate with me. I can't believe how confusing this ghost kitchen stuff is as a consumer. Because a few minutes after filming this I got an email thanking me for my order from Mr. Beastburger. The thing is I didn't order from Mr. Beastburger. I'm doing that later when I talk about Mr. Beastburger. So I looked at the address in the email and it happens to be the exact same address from where I got my NASCAR refuel wings. So they just thanked me for ordering from a completely different restaurant. And when I looked up the address it just gave me Universal City Walk which is the big mall outside of Universal Studios Hollywood. It didn't even match up with one of the restaurants there. It just looked like a vague point on one of the buildings. Did they make my wings in Universal Studios? Did the minions make my wings? It seems like VDC can't even keep track of their own virtual restaurants. But if you're a content creator or a celebrity that thought it would be a cool idea to open up your own fast food brand that doesn't inherently make you the devil. I mentioned three types of ghost kitchens before and one of them is existing restaurants. Now these restaurants can be major chains or small businesses and running these virtual restaurants out of a small business might help them keep the lights on. That additional revenue could be a lifesaver for them. The thing is as I've been looking up stuff for this video I would frequently get so lost trying to keep track of all the virtual restaurants. It would be hard to count how many virtual restaurants are in one location or where a virtual restaurant was located. Sometimes I would look up Mr. Beastburgers in my area and when I went to the street view they just didn't exist and also didn't have an address listed. And that's when I started to think if I'm spending all day just trying to locate certain restaurants. How the hell are they doing health inspections for these places? And that's when I stumbled on an article called Do You Know Where Your Chicken Wings Come From by The Boston Glow. The article centers around the challenges that ghost kitchens have added to health inspection agencies and Massachusetts. Frequently it seems that health inspectors and Massachusetts will find out during the health inspection that they're running multiple restaurants out of the same kitchen. Lexington's health director Joanne Belinger even said it's like smoke and mirrors or a shell game. We licensed this particular restaurant but on the side they're running six or seven other things and they're constantly getting surprised by this because the article states no one knows how many such operations are running in Massachusetts or nationwide as there is no central entity that tracks them. And when health departments can't track where food is coming from it makes it near impossible to track where a foodborne illness starts. Some defenders of virtual kitchens might say well if you have a kitchen that passed a health inspection what's the harm in adding a virtual kitchen you already passed. But what if your new virtual restaurant menu adds an allergen that your original menu didn't have? You now need to be inspected again to make sure you're not cross-contaminating and feeding somebody something they're allergic to. And not only is the FDA struggling nationwide to keep up with this technology. In spring of 2022, Needham's health department encountered a Thai restaurant as a department it closed for repeated health violations that then opened up as a virtual Thai restaurant under a new name. And this isn't just Massachusetts. ABC7 Chicago discovered something similar in their reporting. But what if your food comes from a restaurant with health violations? The ITM found restaurants with some of the most serious violations, the Buffalo Wild Wings on 513 West Taylor Street near the South Loop houses the Ghost Restaurant Wild Burger. The restaurant had recent failing inspections with violations including 100 fruit flies throughout the establishment and no soap at a hand washing sink. In follow-up reports the restaurant fixed violations and passed inspection. It's really just a snowball with Ghost Kitchens because this problem also opens up a new problem, which is major restaurant brands pretending to be smaller businesses on delivery apps to get more business from you. Next on our list of fake-ass restaurants, you can tell. Look at the graphics. It's obvious. Super mega-dilla and thrilled cheese. Those are both I hop. Both of these have the same address and it's I hop. I can't believe that I hop would do this. Surely no other major brands have done the exact same. So I guess we have a new problem to worry about. Sometimes the virtual restaurant isn't even real and sometimes I guess now it's chillies. I've been researching for this video for around two months now and I feel like I'm going crazy because anytime I'm confused or I see something deceiving and I pursue it, I get even more confused and sometimes even more deceived. However, there is one thing that I am certain of. Every single day I have researched or filmed or gone to get food from one of these Ghost Kitchens. One virtual restaurant will make itself known at least once. A ghost franchise that is so popular that any YouTube addicted 12-year old would know the menu by heart. In this story, I'm the beauty and this restaurant is... Mr. Beastburger is one of, if not the most popular Ghost Franchise in the United States. The Ghost Franchise was created by YouTube's Golden Boy and Elon Musk reply guy Jimmy Donaldson, aka Mr. Beast. We will be spending 24 hours in this insane asylum. I've built two massive circles and put 100 boys at one and 100 girls in the other. I am not eating any food for the next 30 days. The reason I've waited so long to talk about Mr. Beastburgers is because it utilizes all three main forms of Ghost Kitchens, including trailers. Ghost Kitchens trailers are exactly what they sound like. They're a trailer that runs multiple virtual restaurants out of it. Now the leading company that owns these trailers seems to be reef global but as I've been reading some articles about it it seems like reef isn't doing so hot lately. They've had a lot of big companies pull business from them, it even looks like Wendy's had a projected 500 locations set to open but they cut that deal and reef later exited its Houston market and laid off 5% of its workforce amid low sales and a rash of permitting and safety violations. Let me just look up what safety violations there are. Okay so I just found this Wall Street Journal article called Ghost Kitchens are proving to be a messy business as reef global shows. The article starts by saying a few seconds after a cook turned on a stove in a tiny mobile kitchen in a Houston parking lot in April, a fireball erupted from the propane burners, flaring out into the center of the trailer owned by reef global ink. While the cook escaped harm she happened to open a refrigerator at the same time that shielded her from the flames. It was the second such incident at the same Houston trailer in four months. The first one injured a different cook as flames scorched her face and gave her kind of a warning for this to be kind of violent language to skip forward 10 seconds if you don't want to hear this. Gave her third degree burns on her hands that caused a skin to peel off her fingers, rendering her unable to work. Wall Street Journal, did you hear how bad her hands got burnt? How can she work? How can she contribute to the company? A similar fireball in San Francisco injured another reef employee in the spring according to the former reef managers briefed on the three incidents. And on top of that there's also an insider article about leaked reef emails where they're talking about nearly a full year of complaints from Mr. Beesberger, where customers were served uncooked chicken and raw burgers. This is not directly Mr. Bees fault and I'm sure this happens with regular fast food franchises, but this problem is a lot more difficult to solve when you have no real locations. And up until very recently this business was solely run out of ghost kitchens. And in interviews Jimmy doesn't hide that fact at all. He's actually one of the only people I see being open and honest about their business and ghost kitchens. Is it cool to own a burger joint? So when I first started it this is when COVID was at its height. So we started virtual restaurant. A lot of restaurants were laying people off and Beesberger originally why we got into it is it was like a way for restaurants to make extra money. So if you're a mom and pop and you know that lockdowns you can't even serve people in your parking restaurant your revenue just cut cut in half. You could just start serving Beesberger and then anytime anyone within eight miles place in order you fulfill it you get to keep a majority of the revenue. Yeah. Now that's a pretty noble motivation to opening up Mr. Beesberger. But Jimmy just doesn't talk about the fact that they do this also out of existing restaurants that are major corporations and the fact that they ran them out of reef trailers. Anyone anywhere can just start serving Mr. Beesberger. You just take our training course order our ingredients a packaging and then turn it on and all the websites. So it's the same ingredients. So it tastes the same. And I understand what Jimmy's trying to do but you really shouldn't make it that accessible for anyone anywhere to start serving Mr. Beesberger to customers because again I start thinking about the health inspection stuff. People all over the country primarily kids are eating this food you need to have some kind of barrier for the quality of it. And so he's sort of transparent about the ghost kitchen stuff in interviews but let's also look at what he actually told his fans. When the business opened in 2020 this is how it was announced to a 144 million people. I opened up the world's first free restaurant and if that wasn't enough I also paid people to eat at my restaurant. Put it on up. Yeah. I've never had a restaurant before. Bye and that was our last customer. If you like what you saw in this video you too can eat Beesberger. I literally just opened 300 restaurants all across America but we only serve people through delivery apps. Basically open up whatever you use and search Mr. Beesberger and you could order anything from our amazing and delicious menu. And like I said we have hundreds of locations all across America just open up your favorite delivery apps and search Mr. Beesberger. So while this isn't a direct lie I would have liked him to be less vague about opening 300 locations because this is the Mr. Beesberger that 144 million people saw. Complete with its own branding and even a drive-through. And this is the Mr. Beesberger that I just ordered from. The small business was connected to this building and when I went in they didn't even realize that a new Burieds order for Mr. Beesberger had come through. Obviously it appeared as their own business there was no Mr. Bees branding anywhere. They told me it was going to be a 20 minute wait so I went back to the car to wait with Chrissy. Do you think if we ask them they'll sign this? I don't. I really hope. When I finally went back in and was handed the bag I noticed that it wasn't a Mr. Beesberger bag it was one of those regular thank you bags. Regardless we headed home bag in hand. Bag hanging low. I got four items total and ordered it for pick-up so the whole thing ran me 36.85. They're also not in Mr. Bees packaging either. So Mr. Bees NASCAR wings is blowing you out of the fucking water. Now Beast-style fries are supposed to be seasoned Crinkle Cut fries loaded with caramelized onions, American cheese, pickles, mayo, ketchup, and mustard. What I got was seasoned Crinkle Cut fries with cooked onions, American cheese, pickles, and ketchup. You can see right here this is what they look like and So I flipped them back over pretty well actually it worked out just fine and they were average. I do think what would make this order special is the ingredients on the fries and I didn't get all that I ordered but this is the best that the order's gonna get I promise you. Now the next item on the list was supposed to be a Carl's Deluxe which is like a patty melt grilled cheese but when I pulled it out I was very confused. Which is this the Beast Burger? After looking at all of the order later this was not a Beast-style burger it was not a Carl's Deluxe it was one of their Impossible Beast-style burgers. This is what the Impossible Beast-style burger is supposed to look like and this looks like if somebody drew a burger for me how is this real it looks like a crappie patty now when I opened it up it looked really boring. This looks unbelievably boring but surprisingly it also tasted really boring. This tastes like a cafeteria burger. The Impossible Burger is supposed to be smashed crispy and possible patties with house seasoning, American cheese, pickles, diced white onions, mayo, ketchup, and brown mustard on a toasted bun. What I got was an Impossible Patty, American cheese, shredded lettuce, and a tiny bit of ketchup. There's no sauce on it either. There's just like a little bit of ketchup. On the bun. The bun was way cheaper than the one looks in the photo but also if you examine the meat in the Impossible photo it looks nothing like this. So what the hell did I just eat? Next up was the Crispy Chicken Tender Sandwich and this one is an easy layup. Everybody knows what comes on a chicken sandwich. It's just chicken, the bun, mayo, pickles, and lettuce. I was really hoping I would have a positive experience but all of the ingredients just feel really really cheap. Like it just doesn't look like a satisfying chicken sandwich. I don't know. It's so dry. When I got was the chicken tender, some shredded lettuce, and a tiny bit of ketchup. Lastly we had the main event. The very item that carries the name of this ghost franchise. The Beast Style Burger. And man, this one kind of pissed me off because I ate it and while I've been editing it, I noticed that the camera got a better angle of the meat than I did. Man, this is supposed to be a smash burger. What the hell is this? Now when it comes to Mr. Beast Burger, do I think that Jimmy was intentionally trying to mislead people in his video or that he ever wanted to serve people uncooked beef? No, of course not. Jimmy is a little bit younger than me. I think he's like 24, but he's also CEO-brained so I'm pretty sure he doesn't give much thought to anything but making the biggest videos in the world and growing his company. However, I will say that the quality of that food was really bad. That was probably no exaggeration. The blandest fast food I've ever had in my entire life. So I think my one piece of advice to Mr. Beast that he's not gonna listen to because I have less subscribers than him is just give a little bit more thought into the businesses that you're running because the ghost kitchen stuff is really like the wild west of food and there are a lot of really young impressionable people watching what you do so you just got to be a little bit careful with the businesses that you run. But that really got me thinking about the psychology of the ghost kitchen business. It really seems that a large form of this business is based on deception and I started to wonder how easy would it be to trick people into eating food that they've already had but make them think that it's a brand new restaurant. It seems to happen every single day we saw with iHop and Chilly's earlier. So to test this out, I decided to pay thousands of dollars to do a real legitimate focus group in Los Angeles. Now to do this I would need my own virtual restaurant with its own branding. My name is Eddie Burback so let's go with something like Eddie's burgers or or Burback's burgers. Burger burger burger back burger back. I also needed a fake logo to put on the packaging of the food so I'm pretty new to graphic design but I worked like I don't know maybe three or four days on this logo. I think I did a really great job. There actually might be a path for me in graphic design and not in YouTube anymore so I'm sorry I'm just very proud of it. As the group entered the room I realized that I had put up thousands of dollars and the entire point I'm trying to make on the results of this focus group so my nerves were high. Hi everyone. Thank you all for coming in today. My name is Jack and we're holding this group on behalf of an exciting new fast food restaurant burger back. Now before they tasted the burgers I'll be honest I was a little vain and I added a question to see how much people would like my logo. So before you is the official burger back logo and I want to ask you all what are initial thoughts about the logo? That's lame. It's lame? No we want that. It's kind of bland. I was saying okay. Oh that's good. Interesting. I guess they just don't have an eye for logos I guess they're just wrong but it was finally time to taste the burgers. So burger A was a Carl's junior famous star and burger B was one that we picked up from a local restaurant down the street. Both burgers had the same ingredients and were repackaged under the burger back logo. So we started by bringing burger A out to the group. One of them compared it to a burger king burger and another person even said this. You said a lot from Carl's junior famous star? Oh yeah you're right. So he said it reminded him of a Carl's junior famous star but he didn't say that it was a Carl's junior famous star and then burger B from LA tavern was brought out to the group. It was immediately clear that they liked this burger much more than the last. They thought that Carl's junior burger was bland but the one from the local restaurant seemed to be a hit. After tasting both burgers we asked the group to identify which one they thought was a fast food burger and which one they thought came from a local restaurant. To my surprise they identified the Carl's junior burger as a fast food burger and the burger from LA tavern down the street as a local family owned restaurant burger. But I don't understand I hop and chiles have been doing this I thought this was easy to trick people. So we held the second group to see if the results would be the same. Testing out two things. One if they could identify the burger like the first group and two if one of them would finally be honest and say they liked my logo. And I just wanted to ask your honest opinion what do you think about the logo? I don't get the name of it. I do want a context. Well I think it's far back. It's like what's a burger back? Come generic. Okay cool yeah it's um it's a focus group so you know they're gonna give their honest opinion and sometimes people's honest opinions can be wrong or dumb or bad or wrong and bad and stupid and hurtful and mean. And after that the focus group went the exact same as the one before it. They all unanimously voted A for fast food and B for local. So the second one I think is from the local? Is that kind of everyone's um yeah fog here. So even though nobody stopped during the taste test and said I think this is a Carl's junior burger I think you're lying to me. I may have wasted thousands of dollars in disproving my own point. It seems that ghost kitchens aren't that deceiving because people can tell the difference between what's a fast food burger and what's a local chain burger. Which is a huge bummer because I feel like I put the whole point of the video on this focus group and now I feel like I've been proven wrong. Or I lied because while burger A is a famous star from Carl's junior LA tavern is not a real restaurant. In fact that photo you saw was a random building that I picked off of street view and the focus group did not correctly vote between what was a local restaurant burger and what was a fast food burger because burger B was jacking the box this whole time. Both focus groups tasted two fast food burgers and incorrectly said that one was from a local restaurant. So I think it's pretty clear that I made everyone in that focus group look dumb. Now obviously I'm joking because they aren't dumb. I lied to the people in that focus group about the food they were eating and they believed me and I also lied to you about the food I was feeding them and you believed me because it is not a person's job when they pay for food to investigate whether they're being lied to or not. I have spent the first part of this year ordering food and then spending hours trying to figure out how it was made and what the story behind it was. It would be completely normal for a focus group to be held to test which burger tastes better from a company. You know it's not normal being part of a focus group where you're being lied to by a YouTuber who's trying to prove a point. Nobody would think that's what was happening. Much like if I went on to a delivery app and tried to order a burger from a local place it would be insane for me to randomly assume that it's a chile or that it's from one building that has 44 other restaurants running out of it or that it's from some weird mobile trailer that has a bunch of explosions burning their employees. And I don't have a solution to this problem. I mean what do I know? I'm a comedian on YouTube that's like the lowest job in society. Now I don't think this will happen but I think at the very least delivery app should add some kind of tag where you can see what's a virtual restaurant and what's a real brick and mortar place because if you're supporting a restaurant with your dollar to get some food in return the very least they can do is let you know where that food is coming from. Especially if it's like an eye hop or a chiles or one of those mobile trailers in a Houston parking lot. Dude I ordered tacos and I looked up the street view on Google and it was the fucking Winnebago from Breaking Bad.