Okay. Craft videos. They serve an important purpose online. Learning how to do a craft will help you maximize efficiency in your daily life. And when you maximize on efficiency, it equals more time for you to play Elden Ring and not make YouTube videos. So craft videos that are usually based on cooking are for the most part helpful. You see something that's good and you're like, damn, I should make that. And then it leaves your brain and you never think about it ever again. A lot of them have to do with Oreos, but for the most part, accounts that are solely dedicated to giving you life tips online are usually pretty bad. So I'm scrolling through TikTok as you do. You know, stomach down on my bed, legs wagging in the air, toes out in Wiglin. Do you know what I mean? Here, so I'll show you. So the phone is in my hand. My legs are up here. I'm going like this, picture my toes out, picture every toe Wiglin independent from one another. That's what I'm talking about. So for the first time ever on my 4U page, I see a craft video. And what's that down on the bottom? Does it say they follow me? So out of curiosity, I click on the channel and it was a glitch with TikTok. They do not follow me. I don't know why it happened. I had the same thing happen before where it said Bryce Hall followed me and my heart skipped to beat. Not because I dislike Bryce Hall. I, to be honest, I really don't even know who he is. I just know the name, but he looks dreamy. And it really was a blow to my ego when I found out that he didn't actually follow me. So with my ego brews this time, I decided what the hell? I don't really watch craft videos. Let me check this out. And my experience was so interesting. I wanted to show you guys. And then I thought after we enjoy watching some of these, I'm going to try some of these tips in person. Nothing new. Other commentary channels have done videos like this. Some of them are my close friends, but I want to do it. So fuck you guys. Get out of here. Go. So let's start off with the one that grabbed me first. Many people who have lived for 800 years don't know how to cut vegetables. So we're starting off strong with many people who have lived 800 years don't know how to cut vegetables. I've never met somebody who's lived 800 years, but I imagine that their fingers are made out of dust. And that's probably why they can't cut a vegetable. First, cut celery like this. Second, cut potatoes like this. So we're over two. We're over two on what they're cutting. First it was celery. That was not celery. And then obviously this is not a potato unless I don't know they passed a new law and I didn't get the memo. This account is clearly not an English speaking account and is translating the directions. But what I love is for some reason the robot narrator that they have just has the weirdest tone for delivering instructions. But that one's pretty tame. It's just showing us how to cut vegetables. And I don't want to hear you come in and say, oh tomato's a fruit. They said potato. So that's cannon. After that a lot of the intro sentences that start these crafts are, I don't even know, it's not that they got lost in translation. I just don't know what they mean. It's not a wonderful life trick that you can't think of in the late stage of lazy cancer. Oh, wait, hold on, hold on, hold on. It's not a wonderful life trick that you can't think, so I have to read this, that you can't think of in the late stage of lazy cancer. Is there a cancer for being lazy? Because uh oh. The most eating melon seeds by hand is too tired and it is easy to dirty clothes. Smart people hang a plastic bag on their ears, which is convenient and clean. You know, that age old problem of when you're eating seeds and just dropping them all over your shirt in the car. Finally, you can now put a plastic bag over your face and have that moisture and heat just kind of bounce back and forth between you and the bag. But it'll catch melon seeds. But again, you know, that one could have gotten lost in translation a little bit. At least they're not like weirdly specific. Bill Gates' wife won't tell you how to tie the scarf. First kind. Hey, her name is Melinda and they're not even married anymore. They got divorced. Probably because Bill kept trying to figure out her scarf tricks. I think that's what happened with my parents. Okay, that's a nice scarf trick. I don't exactly know why Melinda Gates wouldn't want to tell me these. I'm gonna be honest. I don't have a scarf and I just bought one so I can try some scarf tricks later because I've never learned some scarf tricks. Also, my girlfriend didn't have a scarf that I could borrow for this so I get to be the one in the relationship with the scarf tricks and I will not be telling her. But we can't just cater to 50% of relationships. Two, you know, this scarf fur or not the scarfie. So luckily for you, life tips also helps you creep on your boyfriend. Detective tips that even Harvard graduates don't know. First, if you want to know what your boyfriend is doing at night, cut the balloon. Put it on the cup and put it on the wall. So I have a couple questions first off. Why would a Harvard graduate not know how to put a balloon on a cup? Yeah, they don't really teach classes on balloon cups in Harvard, but old community college over here, that's pretty much what we did. We would do crafts with balloon cups. We would do the, you know, the turkey hand that you do for Thanksgiving. Sometimes I draw crayola on the walls. Community college is fine. I'm just kidding, sorry. But if it's your boyfriend that you're spying on, why are you listening through a wall? Is he in the other room? I'm talking up with somebody because I don't think you need the balloon cup to figure it out if you're in the same house. Squeeze a few drops of apple juice into the water. Dip it with a brush. Right secret words on the paper. Dry it naturally. And press it with an iron to show the original shape. I don't know if that's exactly a detective tip, but that'll really terrify your partner. Oh my God. It's also so convenient to eat potato chips. It's very convenient to take a small bite from the middle and tear it in a circle. Excuse me? That's, uh, that's gotta be the least convenient way to eat a bag of chips. We all know the best way to eat a bag of chips is opening it up, eating out of the top, and then using a chip clip. Where are my chip clippers at? Me eating Cheetos that are three weeks old and still fresh. You on your 15th bag of Cheetos. Just know that if you invite me over to your house, if you ain't chip clippin, I'm dip-dip-in. Second, every time you drink a drink, you always accidentally splash it on your face. Do I, though? Do I always do that? I feel like this narrator is making fun of me. I don't do that. I don't splash it over my face. That's not a problem that I have. I'll teach you a little trick. Pull out the small ears next to the drink. So that you can drink the drink easily. So what this tip essentially is, um, is user straw. I don't think the flaps really matter on that juice box. For the most part, just use a straw. If you can't handle sipping out of something without one, I'm not satisfied yet by these. I need a life tip to go to the next level. Sement tips that only Harvard graduates know. This is what I'm talking about. Sement tips. Okay, where are you gonna get cement tips other than a channel like this? Well, I would guess that if you're going to somebody who has cement tips, a Harvard graduate is probably really low on the list. Somebody in construction, maybe. And I swear if you're like, engineers, go to Harvard. Well, they're fucking nerds. First, bread is easy to get moldy in summer. Soak it in cement and use a coaster after drying. Why did the bread have to be moldy? That's my only question. Why did the bread have to be moldy? So you don't waste good bread? Somebody, well, first off, if I'm a guest in your house, and you're like, oh, can you actually put a coaster down? And you throw a cement block of a slice of wonder bread. I'm leaving right away. The only way you'll get me to stop from leaving is if you have a chip clip. You know those people who do kind of handmade crafts like this that throw it down? Oh, that? Oh, that was just something that I, is this trick I saw online? I know it probably looks like I bought it in the store. And you're like, no, it looks like you made it. You must not know the egg trick. Why do I feel like I'm being bullied? Yo, this guy doesn't know the egg trick. Yes I do. Holy shit. I do. What is it then? You take the yolk and you do. Oh my god, he doesn't know. Oh, man. Let's get out of here. Does want to go do some drugs or have sex? Wait, are we in the euphoria high school? Fix the sugar and salt evenly by four to five. Let your boyfriend help you spread it out. Oh, a little road black. I do not have a boyfriend. But I have to do the craft. Now I gotta get a boyfriend. My girlfriend is not gonna be happy about this. Put the egg yolk in cover with salt. Wait four days. Don't worry. Delicious salted egg yolk will be there. So the egg trick is just wait five days for dry salty yolk. Okay. I've learned after living 200 years. First, take some dad's books. Doodle on each book with a paintbrush. Doodle on dad's books. Those are the books you're never supposed to touch. Doodle on each book with a paintbrush and stick them together on the wall. It's so shocking. Yeah, if you take your dad's books, sorry not your dad's books. If you take dad's books and you paint a picture of a horse and glue them to the wall, it'll be a bit shocking to dad. So I've been getting into a lot more of a fashion lately, you know. I'm wearing jackets. That's about it. That's kind of the big improvement I made over the last two months. I bought some jackets. We're my jacket people at. So let's see some tips with clothes. There are too many clothes at home. Cut it into 9,999 pieces. There's too many clothes at home. You got too much. So cut them into 9,000 pieces. You don't want to waste clothes here. So instead of donating when you have too many clothes, just absolutely obliterate it and create 9,000 pieces of cloth. They make it into a rug as you can see. And I'm not going to do that one. That sounds like too much work to me. What if you forget to buy a gift for your wife? Oh god, I have a wife now. My girlfriend's going to be so mad about this. Oh, and my new boyfriend's going to be so mad about this. It's too late to do it now. It's too late, okay? So what you're going to do is you're going to make one of our crafts. You forgot to give for your wife and you can only trust in us now. This tip is going to save your marriage. All you have to do is make a choker out of a shoelace. Listen, I've never been a wife before. And that's not without a lack of triumph, you know, always the bridesmaid. But I don't think a straw shoelace choker is a good gift for a birthday or an anniversary. But that's speaking for me, somebody who's still not a wife. Okay, so, you know, we're getting into this trend of not wasting things. We're turning straws and shoelaces into chokers. We're cutting up our clothes into 9,000 pieces for a rug. What else can we turn into a new thing? First, remove the tires of dad's car. Cut them in half. Don't remove the... What are we doing to dads? That's how you make sure he stays after you vandalize dad's books. That's right, dad. I drew all over dad's books to draw horse. But you can't leave because I took dad's tires from dad's car to make this. A seesaw. My son has a new toy again. My son? I have a son now. I didn't even tell my wife. I didn't tell my boyfriend. I didn't tell my girlfriend. Ah, God. The final craft we'll watch before we put some of these to the test is one that I want to blow my mind. Tips in life are beyond the imagination of many people. This is exactly what I'm talking about. I need tips that are beyond the imagination of regular people. Life tipsley, what do you have for me? Let's see it. First, the zipper is broken and can be worn back with a fork. That's it? You could just... You could fix a zipper with a fork? I could have imagined that. Would take me two seconds. I just picked you to right now. Okay, we've seen enough crafts. And I've spent my time making fun of them. But how could I make fun of them if I didn't try to do them myself? So let's get to it. So the first one that I wanted to start out with was the tip where you rip a hole in the center of a chip bag so you can eat out of it like a bowl. I sat down, used a toothpick to poke a hole in the center and started to rip around the sides. And I tried sitting in the most convenient way so I wouldn't spill popcorn everywhere but it just felt so unnatural to me. Because you guys already know the most comfortable way to watch a movie is tummy down, legs, up, and say it with me, toes wiggling. But the problem with that is I kept spilling popcorn everywhere. Because of course this is not the most convenient way to eat chips ripping a giant hole in it because it's not a bowl. So it's flimsy. If you move a little bit, popcorn spills out. You didn't need me to test this out for you to know that. I'm sure you already assumed that. So then I had to spend a bunch of time picking up popcorn off my couch, picking it up off the floor and hey, Eddie don't eat that. That was on the floor. Good. So I also got some juice boxes because of the drinking life hack we saw earlier. But the thing is they show the person explode it into their face. Second, every time you drink a drink, you always accidentally splash it on your face. But you have to use a straw to poke a hole with the juice box. It comes with the straw. Why would you ever drink it without the straw? So let's just use the straw, you know, just to poke a hole first. Okay, maybe a couple of drops. Got away from me there. That's a simple mistake, you know. The thing is once you put the straw in, they talk about lifting these flaps and holding it by the flaps. Once you have the straw in, it's super easy to drink. You just put it up to your mouth and you... Sorry. Sorry, you just put this straw up to your... hold on. I feel like the way I'm holding it, I just keep squeezing it really hard. I feel like there might be a better way to hold it. Just grab it and then lift it. Okay. Oh, alright, sorry. Okay, sorry. Okay, sorry. Maybe the flaps would have been a little bit easier. Okay, for this next tip, I need to put a little disclaimer before everything. If you are currently or at one point were married to Bill Gates, stop watching right now, it's going to piss you off. And honestly, right away, I think this is something. I think the casual movie hoodie and a classy scarf is gonna be my new thing. Now before even doing anything with this, I did put this on in front of Chrissy and she started laughing so hard that she asked me to take it off because she couldn't stop. I'm not exaggerating. The sheer sight of me doing this and rocking the scarf like this made her laugh so hard that I had to walk out of the room or take the scarf off those really two options. So let's see how to actually do the scarf tip. First kind. It's gotta be folded like this and then go around my neck and I'm already out of a lot of space but we'll fold. Is this on through and pull? What do you think guys? Is this kind of, I don't know, I think it looks bad. It looks bad. It looks bad. I was thinking I can't be a scarf guy. I'm not even married to Bill Gates. Have you seen him jump over a chair before? He hops over that thing like it's nothing. I'll never marry Bill Gates and thank God. Bill Gates. But now it's time for the most important craft of all, the egg trick. I had to follow the egg trick to a tee but there was one step standing in my way. I needed a boyfriend and who better than my friend drew good in. But Drew wouldn't say yes to being my boyfriend. He's married and I have a girlfriend. It would never work. So I hatched a plan to get Drew to sign a standard video release form with a twist. Howeverly hidden at the bottom next to a professional watermark logo for my fake company was a little detail hidden in plain sight. The fine print would clearly state that by signing this form, Drew would become my boyfriend. But I didn't want him to suspect a thing so I had to butter him up first. Hey Drew, I just wanted to really, really thank you. This is a huge deal for me that you're helping out with the video. You know, I'm just very thankful that you're here. Yeah. No, it's no problem. I mean, I've been in one of your videos before but it's fun to collab. Yeah, it just, it feels like this one is a big moment for both of us in a way. Real quick before we start, I just was wondering, can you actually sign this release form PDF that I just sent you? Uh, yeah, it's fun. Wow, I haven't gotten a fax in a very long time. The term in the Southization is indefinite and I will be active unless I revoke it. Writing, hereby also, wait, I'll try to prove and or inspect the product where I appear or my likeness appears. Well, I've read this pretty thoroughly so I don't think I missed anything. All right, cool. Gotcha, Dumbo. Welcome to the relationship. When am I meeting your family? Fuck you. I have this mixture of sugar and salt and it says to spread it and I wasn't exactly sure. I just need a little bit of help. You're not sure how to, you have all of the tools in your hands. You have the thing that you're spreading and the thing with which you can spread it. Do you think that's what stirring is? Am I getting closer? You are getting closer. Hot or cold? On stirring it. You're hot in proximity, but cold in your method. Okay, so you have the spoon in your hand just kind of and then move your hand around. Wait, sorry. No, you had it. You're honestly doing it pretty good. Okay. All right, well then, I think that's all I need. Thank you for the help. That's all you needed. Yeah, I just needed a little bit of help with the craft. All right, man. All right. Talk to you later, I guess. All right, see you. Okay, so it's been four days since Chrissy and I put the eggs in the mixture of sugar and salt. I really don't want to taste this. It sounds very gross to me. Oh, by the way, I just have to drew. You and I should have just a bit of a conversation later. It's not that crazy or anything. It's wet. Uh, as I, you know, take some of the sugar and salt off, it's definitely falling apart. There's just so much salt. I have to be very close to it, but like the salt is disgusting. It just kind of has a taste and consistency of like a gummy candy without any flavor. Like say, a sour patch, but instead of the sour dust on it, it was just a way too much salt. So that's the egg trick. I could have gone without knowing it, to be honest. And I went through a lot to do it. Again, we need to have a conversation later. About what? You know.