I want you to close your eyes and I want you to go back to June of 2020. We're all depressed. My girlfriend says we've watched through succession twice. We've watched through I think you should leave again. We've watched through all Bojack Horsemen. Do you want to watch Glee? It's insane. And knowing me from my videos, I said of course. I never got to watch Glee, but the more and more I see about it now since it's come out, it seems like the craziest show on television. And there's nothing I love more than bad TV that's also insane. It's my bread and butter. You could call it my Ed and butter. Because that's not good at all. Oh my god, cut that. Oh my god. And over the course of that month, we watched through about a season and a half of Glee. And I kept thinking, oh man, I really want to make a video about this show now. It's insane. And certainly I'm not the first person to make a video about it, but I didn't watch anyone else's video on it. So now I get to talk. So things have been weird for me lately and I thought, you know what's good for my mental health? I should watch Glee again. And I was going to make a video on the first 10 episodes of season one. But when I started the Pilots, I realized that the pilot is so insane, it would fill up an entire video. So today, we're going to go through the pilot of Glee because I have to talk about how insane the show is. I cannot believe it was on TV and I cannot believe it didn't get canceled right when somebody saw the pilot. It's insane to me. So first, I want to say that Glee doesn't start off bad in any way, shape, or form. There's clearly some care put into the show. It's just the way the characters are written that I mostly have a problem with. First, we're introduced to the cheerleading team in Susel Vester, pretty much just showing that she's a ruthless coach. And then we're introduced to arguably the main character of Glee, Will Schuster. We see by Will's car that he is strapped for cash and also lives in Ohio. Two things that most people try not to be. And immediately, he spots a member of the Glee Club Kurt who's also a student of his. He calls him out by name about to be bullied by a group of jocks. And he's completely oblivious to it. So this is not an adult that you would want to trust in school. Now, I can't use the audio from these scenes because they're using Earthwinden fires, shining star to do a montage in the intro, which I actually like. It's really fun. It gives a cool energy to introducing everybody. Some key bits of information are Will stops and stares at a Glee Club national championship and clearly a teacher that ran the Glee Club that he admired. He's not currently the head of the Glee Club. He's a Spanish teacher and Finn is one of his students, Finn being a main character who is the quarterback at the school. And then something else happens during the montage. So one of the first things we see happen in Glee during this montage is the old Glee Club head or the current in that scene. Inappropriately touch a student that is two minutes into the fun Fox Glee Club show and it is not really played for anything other than laughs and plot, which right away is like that's 2009 not 1962. That's weird as hell. So at the school currently a lot of the teachers are complaining that there's only funding for the Cheerios, which is the cheer team. They seem to be national champions. Su-Sylvester seems like a real celebrity coach and all of the school funding is going to that because it brings in money to the school. Then Will learns that a colleague of his the head of the Glee Club gets fired and this is his first reaction. I'd like to take over Glee Club. You want to cap down the Titanic too? Now I would be lying if I didn't say that there is some funny writing in Glee. A lot of the back and forth with the principle and most of the first season is really funny. There is no joy in these kids they feel invisible. That's why everyone of them has a MySpace page. But there are also some things that don't age well at all. What is it with you in this club? You've got only five kids, one of them's a cripple. Then I guess you've got nothing to worry about. Then we are introduced to Rachel. Rachel seems like a parody of a cutthroat theater kid except we're supposed to also feel for her. So she's not just a parody character made for laughs. She's just an awful person. And speaking of awful, she's the one that tells on the teacher touching the student not out of the sake of justice. But because she wants the solo that student has, she told and exposed this thing that that kid might have not been comfortable with everyone knowing about just so she could get a solo in a musical. So that's what Rachel's like. Also my last video got completely demonetized because there was a TV show clip in it. I'm not going to let that stop me from using clips of Glee in this. I feel like it's really important to make the video much better than it could be without it. So I just want to say this one probably will get demonetized. If you do want to support me, I did just launch my winter merch stuff. It's yikeshop.com. The links in the description. Okay, back to it. So you'll see this later in the pilot, but also later in the show, Will's wife is an awful person. But we're not told that yet. So we shouldn't assume it in any way. So Will Schuster and his wife are trying to have a baby. And while he's trying to start this huge part of his life, he becomes obsessed with heading the Glee Club. I just wanted to tell you that I'm going to have to start working late for the next couple months. I'm a monitoring after school detention. For some reason, he told the principal it's because the kids are depressed, but he doesn't really know the kids that well. The little bit of backstory is that Will was in the Glee Club in the 90s and they won nationals. So he's chasing that feeling that he missed before. He doesn't really care about the students or helping them in any way. And he's prioritizing this over trying to start a new chapter of his life with his wife. And he lies to her about it. Well, yum. Sandy? So Will runs into the old Glee Club head and he's not disgraced after being fired for inappropriately touching a student at school. Are you kidding? Getting out of that swirling eddy of despair best thing that ever happened to me. Don't get me wrong. It wasn't easy at first. Being dismissed and for what I was accused of, my long-distance girlfriend and Cleveland nearly broke up with me. He's just kind of played for laughs that he's, you know, weed dealer now. So what the fuck is that all about? So Will wants to head the Glee Club, but the principal says there's only $60 a month in the budget because all the money is going to the cheerleading team. What is Will need $60 for even to have a bunch of people sing in a room? I don't know, but he needs it. I didn't know $60 a month from my wife Terry was going to be hard, but I had a bigger problem. Now first I want to say that we all deserve financial compensation from Fox for making us see Matthew Morrison without a shirt on. I will not be explaining myself. I think we all understand what I mean. But dude, yeah, it's going to be hard-lined your wife. You're trying for a baby right now and you're trying to siphon off money that you don't have for a new thing that you asked for. Just a reminder, again, his wife is a terrible person, but he doesn't know that yet. And he thinks they're trying to start a family and he's off trying to fuel his own ego and waste his own money for his own family. Hey, Sue, can I have a sec? Sure, buddy. Also, I want to take a second to say that Jane Lynch in the rest of the show too is so good as Susyl Vester. Her lines are usually the funniest in the show because she's kind of making fun of the whole idea of Glee Club and how cheesy the show is. But at times she's also horrible, like every character in the show. Every character at some point, not all in the pilot, but at some point does something truly, truly awful. And we're supposed to just like skate past that. Either way, Jane Lynch fucking killed it. So you want to talk to my Cheerios about joining Glee Club? Well, I need more kids, performers, and all the best ones are in the Cheerios. So then the show presents us with Will's kind of problem. He wants to head to Glee Club and start it up again after this kind of horrible tragedy and nobody wants to do it. So he's definitely not doing it for the kids because they don't want to do it. He wants to do Glee Club for his own selfish reasons and anything he says to anyone else, otherwise, is a lie. I honestly thought that was the end of the very brief fever dream that was new directions. And now we get to a very common and reoccurring aspect of Glee. Adults and the kids in the show being really creepy and not respecting the boundary of like minors versus adults will hear Finn singing in the shower and he decides to not only walk up to him in the shower, but one that the shot of Finn, like his legs flipping around seems very much to like put the idea in your head that there's like a flop. You know what I mean? Like why would they why would they show that other than he's like exposing himself and then his teacher, his Spanish teacher just keeps walking up and listening to him and there's no moment where it's played for laughs where he says like, hey, you're really good and Finn gets scared. He watches him in the shower and then the neck it the scene ends. So oh my god, uh seems to be a recurring theme with the Glee teacher heads of with certain behavior. And then the neck scene Finn is a jock and he's like an 80s jock in this. So he doesn't want to sing it's high school musical. He likes to sing but doesn't want to do it because sports, you know, the age old question of should I sing even though I'm good at it, but I played the sports. What do I do? What do my dad say? That's not a problem for Finn because his dad is dead. His dad is dead in the show. His dad is this dad is very much dead. So there's no high school musical dad to go like, Finn, what are you doing? You invested your life in this because you know, he's literally ash in a nerve. Anyways, Will Schuster wants to start Glee Club so bad he decides to get the weed that the gym teacher was buying from the old disgraced creepy glee club teacher and black male Finn into joining the glee club. It's not mine. I'll pee in a cup. I'll pee. It wouldn't make any difference. Possession is 8th 10th of the law. I'm pretty sure that much pot is a felony. We're supposed to be cool with that. He's like a 16 year old kid who wasn't smoking weed and then his Spanish teachers like, damn, I want to get glee club going so bad. I'm going to have to blackmail this kid whose dad died. I'm sorry. What? Huh? He did what? So in the middle of being blackmailed, Finn has what I like to call a reverse that so raven moment otherwise known as a memory. And the memory is of this guy who used to date his mom when he was younger who loved to sing while he did yard work and he let Finn sing too. So Finn kind of fell in love with singing and the guy encouraged him to do it until he cheated on Finn's mom and Finn just like, yeah, that sucked for my mom but he's really cool and I always thought he was the best. So Finn and Rachel are singing as the leads and Mercedes who was the original singer in the club before this and is probably the best vocalist out of all of them says that she's unhappy for being a backup singer and Will Schuster is like, hey, there's a one time thing. We're not going to do that to you. Okay, look Mercedes, it's just one song and it's the first time we've been kind of good. Okay. And as someone who watched the show further, they absolutely do that to her for the rest of the show. Like, she gets her moments occasionally but they definitely, she was right. So after a hard day's work of blackmailing a child, Will and Terry are doing a puzzle together. As they discuss, their financial troubles. Terry wants Will to become an accountant because they are broke but Will reveals that they're broke because she has a pottery barn shopping addiction. Come on, we cannot afford this stuff, Terry. But we could, Will. So they both can afford to raise a child if they wanted to but Will can't give the time and also is, you know, working on a teacher salary, which, you know, should be more. And his wife, Terry, has a shopping addiction. These are two people that should not have a child. Oh my god. There's also a Will they won't they immediately in the pilot with Emma Pillsbury, the other teacher with Will and her. There's no chemistry at all. It's not interesting. And excited about the Glee Club moving forward, Will Schuster returns home to find out this. Oh no, Will can't do the Glee Club anymore because he's having a kid and has to be responsible. Obviously that was going to happen. They were trying to get pregnant. So what the fuck did he expect? Are you leaving us? So at this point everyone said that that Mr. Schuster is leaving the Glee Club. But if you look back at the episode, the only one on one emotional conversations he had is one with Rachel where he tries to convince her to join Glee and she says like, no, it's not worth it. And one with Finn where he's blackmailing him. So I don't really know why everyone's so broken up about this. So after finding out that Finn is in the Glee Club and this is like, you know, still this is 2009. So bad things have happened at schools if you know what I mean. And the entire football team seems to bring paintball guns on campus and shoot Finn point blank with paintball guns, which is extremely painful if that happened with one of the paintball guns. But like eight or nine of them, that's a crime. That's assault. Oh my god. And the bullying continues. Puck the other Jack character once Finn to prove himself by tipping over a portapotti with Arty in it just because Arty's in a wheelchair. These are characters that will become endearing later. But they start the show by being somebody who would put a person in a wheelchair in a portapotti for the sole reason that they're in a wheelchair. I'm just gonna say I will not be liking that character in the future. Okay, I'm just gonna say no matter how endearing they make them in the future, I'm good. No thanks. And then I love Finn sees the guy, you know, who made him like singing, but also more importantly, the guy that cheated on his mom having fun with the woman that was involved in the cheating. And he's just like, hell yeah. There he goes. That guy that cheated on my mom. So Finn goes to convince everyone he wants to join the glee club and he doesn't want to be a bully anymore. And Kurt is like, hey, you've relentlessly bullied me in a homophobic way for years. And Finn's just like, I'm sorry, but I want to sing though. Is that okay? Fuck you dude. What the hell? A bigger sorry is in order. A much bigger sorry is in order. But as everyone is coming together, Miss Pillsbury tries to inspire Will not to take care of his family, but to follow his dreams. And he says this. I do. That's the greatest moment of my life. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Being in glee club nationals was the greatest moment of his life. No wonder he's doing all this. This guy is, he's had a lot of time to have greater moments. Can you imagine being on your deathbed? Thank you everyone for being here. I just wanted to let you know that the greatest moment of my life was the 1997 glee club nationals. Ever and around you is just like, oh, that's sad. So there we have it. Finn makes the high school musical choice. The glee club comes together. Will decides to be responsible and take care of his family. All the arcs are complete to set up a good show. And what's that? It would kill me to see you win nationals without me. Oh, Will says that he wants to be a part of it if they're going to win nationals. He just wants to be a part of the glory of glee high school nationals. And that's what his character motivation is for the rest of the show. Overall, I think the core problem with glee is it has its hands in two camps. On one hand, it is a teen show meant for kids to watch it and see themselves on television and experience the drama of these kids at a high school. Characters you're supposed to sympathize with while they're also awful and bullying each other and betraying each other and later in the show constantly cheating on each other. And I really think glee, if they wanted to lean into the parody aspect, would have worked way better as a movie because you're not asking people to invest a lot of time in these characters and care about them. They're more just parodies of 80s films or, you know, your classic high school movies. But when you're asking a bunch of teenagers to tune in every week to sympathize with kids who are constantly horribly bullying each other and cheating on each other and have adults being extremely inappropriate behind them, it could probably do some damage. I know there were a lot of people that watched glee that kind of had a moment in their 20s where they stopped and they were like, wait, that show was really fucked up and probably changed the way I think about some people. And I'd love to talk about glee further. I was gonna watch the first 10 episodes and if this video does really well, then I would love to talk about it more. But only if it does really well. Because, you know, I want people to watch my stuff. So that's the glee pilot. Hi guys, it's me again from a second ago. This episode was sponsored by HelloFresh. Guys, when I was a kid, I had a dream to own a hoverboard. Uh, or hold on. Right, sorry. To have meals sent to me so I don't have to think about what to eat. It was actually something I really wanted as a teenager. I was like, I want to eat kind of healthy. I don't understand anything. I wish somebody could just give me the meal and I could make it. And now, you know, there's a company for that because we live in the future. HelloFresh offers so many recipes to choose from each week to help you break out of your recipe rut. They make eating well easier with many family, friendly, calorie smart, pescatarian, and veggie options every week, which is cool. Plus, every recipe is packed with fresh produce source directly from farmers. Thanks, farmers. Wherever you are, if you can hear me. Thank you. Guy in a farm just... Oh, yeah, no problem. HelloFresh's pre-portion ingredients means there's less prep for you and less food wasted. This is huge. Also, HelloFresh cuts down on your food waste by at least 25% compared to grocery shopping. The source is the University of Michigan, which sounds super reputable. But I, personally, don't believe Michigan exists. So, agree to disagree, HelloFresh. I had never experienced a service like this before. I had never, you know, used it. And we got a box in the mail. It was super convenient. The ingredients were there. Look at how tasty and great those ingredients look. Look at me with... You don't have to take... You're not like taking a photo with green beans. Show... Cut back to the ingredients. Okay, that's asparagus now. I'm a lazy idiot. And also, a lot of the time I get excited about buying ingredients at the grocery store, like vegetables or fruit. And then I waste it. And I don't mean to. I'm an idiot. I'm a moron. And this really, you know, gives you an exact thing to use. So you don't over buy and waste food. So go to HelloFresh.com and use code Eddie with a Y-14 for up to 14 free meals and three free gifts. That's HelloFresh.com. Use code Eddie-14 for up to 14 free meals and three free gifts. Guys, I'm going home for Thanksgiving. And so I just wanted to say before I go, no, I'm out of play. Oh my god, I'm already going.