I spent the last two weeks making a video about how I think meta and the current product in the metaverse is kind of stupid. And then what does old Markey Mark do? He airs this ad during the Super Bowl. A Chuck E. Cheese Freddy Fazbear-type dog getting his redemption arc by going into the metaverse? I cannot in good conscience call this ad or this product stupid. So I just want you to do me a favor, disregard everything I say in this video. I take it all back. Hello, and welcome to my channel. If you're new here and you're thinking, does that guy look like the boss baby dad and the inside out dad had a child? Am I the only one that thinks that this guy looks like this emoji, but also this emoji? Does anybody else think he looks like every white dude with glasses and a mustache that I've ever seen? Yes. Everyone does. I hear it all the time because I'm online, I'm a person online. It's the reality I live in and it's terrible. But today's topic is perfect because I'm looking to escape that reality and enter the new reality, the next step in human evolution. The metaverse! I don't want to add a deneco in this too much work. First. First. I'm sure you already know. A few months ago, Facebook renamed their company meta, which is great because I'm stupid and I hated Facebook. But meta, that's a new company. I don't know what they are. They've never done anything wrong to me. Now Facebook, they paid a $5 billion fine to the FTC for breaching the privacy of their users. Meta, that's just a new company. All you have to do if you're disliked is take your name and change it to something futuristic. Comcast, change their name to Xfinity, which is like infinity but with an X. And that's cool. It's why I keep emailing OJ and I keep telling him. Change your name to Blismo. It sounds futuristic, it sounds cool. I have not gotten a response back yet, but I'm hoping for one. I'm sure you also know along with changing their name to meta, they switched their direction as a company and the new product they're making the metaverse. Which is a great name because right when you hear it, it just elicits that response of what? What is that? What is the metaverse? I don't know what that means. So if you don't really keep up with the news, you might be thinking, why is Facebook doing this? First off, I don't even think I need to explain myself when I say nobody trusts Facebook as a company. No matter where you fall politically, no matter what age you are, you probably feel like Facebook has breached your privacy at some point. So over the years, their name has constantly gotten worse and worse in the public eye. And pretty much the exact time they changed their name to meta, they were also dealing with a whistleblower controversy. Facebook whistleblower, I don't know if you guys watched this last night on 60 minutes, but is now accusing the social media giant of misleading the public and the company's investors. I will put links in the description. This is a very, very vague summary of what happened. But the whistleblower essentially claimed that there were many instances where Facebook had statistics knowing they were doing harm to society. And they did nothing to change it while they were publicly saying they were doing everything they could. If they changed the algorithm to be safer, people will spend less time on the site, they'll click on less ads, they'll make less money. On top of that, for the first time last week, we found out that Facebook has lost users after years and years of repeated growth. I can't definitely say that Facebook and Instagram are dying, but if I were to ask you, do you think they're the social media sites of the future? You'd probably say no. So with young people less interested in their platforms and a lack of trust for the company, they need a new product and a new name. So now we've arrived at meta. So it's been a few months since they announced the metaverse. And I just wanted to talk about how in its current state, the metaverse is so stupid. And it's stupid mainly because of how Facebook is advertising this new product. So I want to get into that and I think the perfect way of doing that is seeing the original video first of how they announced the metaverse. Today, we're going to talk about the metaverse. Back when I started Facebook, that mostly meant text that we typed on computers. Then we all got phones with cameras and the internet became much more visual. And recently, as connections got faster, video has become the main way that we experience content. Not to just nitpick Mark here, but he's really trying to draw a line that there was text than photo, then video, and now it's going to be VR. But video online is definitely not recent. YouTube is 17 years old. Even with connections getting faster, it's been over a decade since YouTube took over. You can't really say recently. But this isn't the end of the line. The next platform and medium will be even more immersive. We believe the metaverse will be the successor to the mobile internet. So the metaverse is being pitched as a successor to the internet. And if your first thought is, oh god, oh god, please don't let this guy be the president of the new internet. Please, let's not let this happen. Oh god, please anyone but him. That I think is the normal reaction. Now this is going to require not just technical work, like some of the important projects that are going on around crypto and NFTs in the community now. It's also going to take ecosystem building, norm setting, and new forms of governance. Okay, so Mark mentions crypto, NFTs, and a new form of governance. My big problem with a new form of governance in meta is that Facebook had all these privacy issues. Is there going to be a new rule for privacy in the metaverse? This is something that we're really going to focus on. Privacy and safety need to be built into the metaverse from day one. Oh, okay. So you change your name from Facebook and you're going to do new privacy stuff. You're not going to steal or sell our information. I'd love to hear that from you Mark. That'd be awesome. What are these new privacy rules? You will get to decide when you want to be with other people. When you want to block someone from appearing in your space or when you want to take a break and teleport to a platform. Teleport to a private bubble to be alone. So you can pretty much have a friend's list and block people and have a private room by yourself. Which sounds a lot like the features of Xbox Live when I was in sixth grade. Doesn't sound like anything new, Mark. That seems like this new building block is the same as all of the rest of the internet. Mark goes on to say a lot of vague futuristic ideas like this. An embodied internet where you're in the experience, not just looking at it. And we call this the metaverse. And you're going to be able to do almost anything you can imagine. Get together with friends and family, work, learn, play, shop, create, as well as entirely new categories that don't really fit how we think about computers or phones today. But what are they offering currently? What is their product right now? Well, it's something called Horizon Worlds. Welcome to a place of limitless possibilities. A place where you can invent things, transform things, create entire worlds. Here, you can find your community. Can you play with the prizes boomerang? That's my boomerang. No, it is. Then why am I doing that? Where are you? I want to go over there. I'm trying to not smash my head so hard. I did not tell a question. So one thought you might be having is what kind of authority do I have to talk about this? You know, I'm not in Silicon Valley. I'm not a business man. Well, I have something to admit to you guys. And it's going to come as a surprise. I am a gamer. I know. I hate to say it. But I'm just like you. And on top of being a gamer, I'm a bit of a VR enthusiast. With that said, this new part of the metaverse is not only dumb, but already a thing. I have something to show you if you don't use VR. So, this is Horizon Worlds. You're a good look at it. These are people hanging out in a VR space that has been made either by meta employees or users. You can play games, you can talk to other people. Well, if you're not a gamer, what if I told you that this exact experience has existed for a long time? The most popular one being VR chat. I'm sure you've seen some kind of meme from this game. It is absolutely insane and unhinged. However, it does already exist and Mark is pitching their new metaverse stuff as the new internet when this is existed since when? Huh. February of 2017? Five years ago. And it's not like VR chat isn't popular. If you go to Steam right now and you go to VR as a category and click on what's being experienced, the first thing is VR chat. It's the most popular thing being experienced in VR right now on the PC. And speaking of that, I mean not only just VR, there are games like Rec Room. But we've had games where you can exist as an avatar in a social space with people since I don't even know when. Roonscape, Club Penguin, Second Life, Pop Tropica, Wizards 101, World of Warcraft. The list goes on and on. Where the idea of creating a space where you can exist with avatars and socialize with people, we all already know is not a new idea. However, Mark is pitching it like it is. But right now, it's kind of dumb. Especially with how big the company is and how much Facebook originally changed the social landscape of the internet forever. Next, there are avatars. And that's how we're going to represent ourselves in the metaverse. Avatar is will be as common as profile pictures today, but instead of a static image, they're going to be living 3D representations of you. So Mark starts talking about the benefit of socializing with people in the metaverse. When I don't know if you guys saw this leak, this is the real reason that Mark made these avatars in the first place. Do you have a favorite feature to use in here? Yeah, something that you think is very cool. Check this out. Wow. So that's pretty neat. This is so freaking cool. So like I said, we're focusing right now on the current metaverse. Obviously, they're pitching AR technology in the future where you don't have to put a VR headset on, or maybe you sometimes do for a more immersive experience. You're going to be able to move across these different experiences on all kinds of different devices, sometimes using virtual realities you're fully immersed, sometimes using augmented reality glasses so you can be present. So right now, I just have to say, the new version of the internet can't just be in VR. It's too vulnerable of an experience. If you haven't used VR frequently, you have to not only put it on your eyes, but also cover your ears. So both those senses are not to be used for the real everyday world. Which means if there are other people who live in your house, or you're worried about a break-in, you have to completely shut yourself off to everything. If you have kids, you can't look after them. If you have pets, good luck if something happens to them because you're in the middle of a crazy run and beat saber. You can't stop that cool EDM song. You're out of roll right now. I think it's pretty obvious, like people don't want to shut into the internet. They do want cool experiences in VR, and some could be social. But you don't want your entire internet experience, or even a majority of it, to exist in VR. Imagine it in the reverse. Imagine the only way that you could experience the internet. The only way you could watch YouTube videos, or go on Twitter, or TikTok. The only way you could do it is to use a VR headset. What would the next invention for that internet be? I would think it would be to put it on a portable device, so you could experience the real world, but also use the internet if you need to. Where you don't have to shut in and be at home to be on the internet, you could go for a walk in nature, but also check Twitter. That would be the next step you'd think. It's especially in the marketing of this, because if Mark wasn't saying things like this, you can start to see how the metaverse is going to enable richer experiences by letting us add new layers to the world that we can interact with. It could just be a cool side project they're working on. When talking about making real life experiences richer, Mark was referencing this technology to bring somebody to a concert when they can't make it in person. Imagine your best friend is at a concert somewhere across the world. What if you could be there with her? Yeah. You're here! But does this make the experience of going to a concert richer? No. But we're not just talking about metaverse concerts. We're talking about the after party. What if there was an after party that anyone could go to no matter where they were? Oh, they're swag. And when you go to the after party, you could connect with other fans. Hear new versions of your favorite songs and check out the merch that just dropped. Ooh, I like that! Well, now you've got to get it! Thanks for coming in. Today, you know, I know we gave your company $2 billion to make a revolutionary idea for metaverse. Let's see what you got. Okay, so why do you go to concerts? To see the artist I love live in in person. Oh, okay, okay. So we... We can't do that. Or sort of a picture you're going to see Doja Cat. Picture like a bit moji of Doja Cat. Is that good? Not really? Oh, okay. Why else do you go to a concert? To experience music played live in front of me with a group of people. Okay, well, so the music isn't live, you are hearing it over the internet. And the people are real, but not to you. They're like a digital projection. And one of them is a giraffe for some reason. So it's almost like every reason you would go to a concert doesn't exist for a virtual concert. Right, so we give you $2 billion. I guess we'll just give you a billion more. Can you probably figure it out? Uh, yeah. No, for sure. Just we'll spend that money real well. So aside from trying to save the company, why would Mark want something that is the new internet? Why wouldn't he want to integrate it with the current internet that we all use? That would probably be the easiest thing for consumers, right? A lot of other companies like Google and Apple control a lot of internet spaces and purchases. And Mark doesn't want that. He wants it all. He wants it all under the umbrella of meta. I mean, they might come up with some cool technology that we'll all need. But so far, nothing we've seen we need, especially when they pitch something like a virtual concert. I try not to be completely unfair and pretend like the whole pitch of the meta versus what they currently have. But I think it's important to focus on that. Mark does mention stuff like AR technology where you could have a $1 TV that projects on your wall instead of having to pay for a real one. And part of me starts to think, you know, hey, that could be cool. But, and it's such a giant but that there's two big old cheeks I want to talk about. Cheek number one, it's Facebook. We don't trust Facebook at all. They've never had the consumers' best interest at heart. We know they knew that they were doing harm to society and didn't do anything to fix it on purpose. I don't want to hand the keys of a new internet to that company or to this guy. Cheek number two, it's not just being pitched as a cool new technology. It's being pitched as the new way we're going to exist online. And it feels super dystopian. Okay, I want to experience nature in the real world. I want most of my social interactions to be in the real world. And this idea that most of our interactions will become this virtual space is a little scary. Okay, I just want to go touch some grass. Also, like I mentioned before, the VR stuff is not a new idea. It's Facebook doing what they've always done. Instagram stole Vine's video and then TikToks with Instagram Reels and Snapchat Stories. Facebook did the same with a lot of features. But they pitch it as their own idea. And that's exactly what they're doing with the start of the metaverse, which is not a great start to steal other people's ideas and pretend that it's your own. But before we were already on those platforms. So they were like, we know you have a Facebook account, we know you have an Instagram. That's entice you to not go to these other apps because we'll just steal what they had. But now they're trying to convince us to jump onto a new ship. They have a sinking ship and they've used funds and wood from the sinking ship to make a new ship that they're not sure floats and they're asking us to jump to it with them. And I don't exactly want to do that, especially when I know that they suck. And I think that's the sentiment of most people. And I think most people just don't think it's that revolutionary of an idea. And they also don't think it's worth trusting Facebook for because it's not that revolutionary yet. There's also one giant elephant in the room that I haven't really addressed this video. But I need to say how I feel about it or I won't feel good about posting this video. And yeah, I'm gonna talk about NFTs for a second. Before you comment that I don't know what I'm talking about, maybe. Sure, I'm your average person. But I've done my best to try and observe the NFT stuff for the last couple of months. I'm not saying that blockchain technology has no use in the future. But this NFT stuff, especially with the metaverse, doesn't make any sense. One of the ideas we were shown earlier is if you're at an after party, a digital after party for a John Battee's concert. You could buy NFT hats and hoodies. What would you use that for? And why wouldn't you pay for it like you do anything online with a regular dollar? Oh, because then you could take it in other places other than the metaverse. Where are you gonna take? A virtual metaverse John Battee's hoodie other than Horizon Worlds. I want you to really think about this. I want you to sit and I want you to think of another place you could use that hoodie. And don't you dare say, oh, a video game. What if I could wear that hoodie in Warzone? Okay, what a dumb way to spend your money. It's just so upsetting to see such a giant tech company with such a hold on the balls of the world. Start the quote, new internet where they will have full control and include a scam in the beginning of that new internet. I don't even know if every NFT is a scam. But I know if you're actively participating in a lot of them, there's a high chance you're either hoping to scam someone or currently getting scammed. And Mark Zuckerberg knows that. He doesn't want you to go into the metaverse and buy NFTs for your own benefit. And anyone who believes this stuff and is like, wow, the metaverse in the NFT stuff is really exciting. Did you forget all the other stuff that Facebook did? Am I living in a bizarre world? It's like they watched the social network but turned it off right when Mark started being an asshole, which was like two minutes in. God, this stuff makes me want to walk up to Mark Zuckerberg, grab a VR headset off his face and anthropial that shit into a desk. Sorry, my brothers and the cleaners! Along with my NFT, John Battees, hoodie and my fuck you flip flops. You