This video is sponsored by RocketMoney, which I will tell you about later. You know, it's been a really good year for movies so far, but I have to admit that sometimes they can be a little too much for me. As a lot of movies have gotten more ambitious in scope, more groundbreaking with their visuals, I often find myself getting overstimulated. I had to leave the newest mission impossible like 45 minutes in because the AI villain in that movie made me so dizzy I thought I was going to throw up. That's real, by the way. I'm kind of doing a bit right now, but that actually did happen to me. And don't get me wrong, I love sinners. Such a fun theater experience, but the whole time I was watching and I couldn't help but think how much better it would have been if instead of doing the whole vampire thing, they had just screen recorded a bunch of zoom calls. And then I found out about the new War of the Worlds movie and all of my prayers were answered. War of the Worlds is Amazon's take on Steven Spielberg's take on the HG Wells novel from a thousand years ago. And I say Amazon and not Prime Video because where a lot of Prime content is made with a noticeable production value, this movie feels like it was made in an Amazon warehouse. No, Mark, no! It's also kind of an ad for Amazon, but I'll get to that later. The main character of War of the Worlds is Will Radford, who works for the Department of Homeland Security as a surveillance and threat assessment expert, which certainly makes it sound like we could be in Furnick's Sighting movie here. In reality, all Will actually does is sit at his computer all day watching drone footage of Washington DC. I think the conceit of the movie was, okay, what if Jason Bourne worked from home? Sorry. And he was played by Icecube? From the opening montage, it's not entirely clear what Will's role here even is. It kind of seems like the computer is already marking everything for him and all he needs to do is see if the text is green or red. If it's green, he can move on to the next batch of footage, but if it's red, he can also just move on to the next batch of footage. Nothing he's doing matters at all. This car is driving suspiciously close to the Pentagon. Let's go ahead and give that a threat level of medium, provide no further information, and then get back to looking at building. You realize pretty quickly that Will seems to be a lot less interested in securing the homeland than he is using his access to government equipment to spy on his adult children. He spends the majority of his time just looking at them, watching them. He has cameras at their jobs, at their homes, inside their fridge. Okay, so we got four avocados, one mayonnaise, four avocados, and eight unknowns. I'm sorry, it can tell just from the outside of this container that there's cake in there, but it doesn't recognize a cup of pudding. You haven't had any protein this week. How do you know? Let's just say me and your fridge is pretty tight. I love his character one because of ice cubes transformative performance. Really? A muffin. What are you thinking? Jesus, Dad, how many times have we been talking about? One heart, boy, you're dead. But also, I like that he doesn't seem to know why his family doesn't fuck with him. Hey, Pop! Not your daddy, man. Sorry. He finds out his daughter didn't invite him to her baby shower. What shower? Oh, chef. So he hacks into her MacBook and is like, I don't get it. Why doesn't she trust me? Why would she say something like that? And you can see their last text exchange was her asking him for a ride to the hospital and him being like, hmm, not sure about that. I'm going to be absolutely swamped that day watching a live feed of you going to the hospital. One of the other main characters in this movie is his friend, question mark, who works at NASA. And if it wasn't made obvious by the logo behind her and multiple mentions of the NASA satellites that she has access to, her name in the movie is Sandra NASA. Just want to make sure nobody's confused about where she works. And look, I'm guilty of sometimes saving someone in my phone as first name, their name, last name, the thing I know them for. But even in the government database that he uses throughout the movie, he types in her name as Sandra NASA. So I think that is her legal name. Anyway, this is a great scene because in the span of about 15 seconds, you can see ice cube go from crazy weather. Not my problem. Well, that weather is crazy. But it's not my problem. Take a look at this. I watch people not weather. All right, that's crazy right? I got bigger fish to fry than watching clown. Now, I know you're thinking this movie is great so far, but how come nobody's gone on Facebook yet? Don't worry, he does for several consecutive minutes. Remember to take out the trash today and be nice to the kids. That's how she died. He forgot to take out the trash and she got hit by a garbage truck. Here's another example of very efficient writing in this scene. From this, we don't just learn that wife is dead. We'd learn that in this universe, the deliverability of a Facebook message is what indicates whether or not someone is alive. This is a crucial detail to remember. As later on, when shit hits the fan and the alien start attacking, spoiler alert, sorry. There's a very tense moment where Will's message to his daughter, Faith, does not go through the implication being that she died so hard. Her Facebook doesn't even work anymore. Look, I don't Facebook certainly has some weird policies, but I don't think they deactivate your account the moment you die. Now, thankfully she survived. And her dad is able to confirm this because he again has access to 24 seven live feeds of every building she might be inside of. He really does care. That'll teach her not to be so cagey about her privacy. Also, I see these are all ring cameras. They've placed around their house. But what is this one for? The one that's eye level with the couch. Set to make sure nobody breaks in and starts watching TV. Now, I think this is a good time to remind you that Ice Cube spends 99% of this movie sitting in one spot. This is a sci-fi action adventure about aliens attempting to destroy Earth. And it is filmed entirely from the point of view of a guy looking at his computer. You could make the argument that there's no point in even trying to make this movie if you're not going to actually film any of the things that are supposed to be happening. And I'd almost be inclined to agree. But have you stopped to think about how much more work that would have been watching someone's facial expression change slightly while looking at a bunch of desktop notifications accomplishes the same exact thing. Like even when meteors are hitting the Earth, aliens are coming out and shooting people. We're still not really watching any of those things. We're just watching Ice Cube react to those things. This is probably the best scene in the whole movie. It's good advice. Where is he routing him? He's so confident about where to go. About where the aliens aren't going to be. Oh no. My son died from explosion. When is this week gonna end? Don't worry, Dave is okay. But now Faith isn't troubled. I've never shown his head. What are you doing outside? At least put a jacket on. It's cold out there. Yeah, she's working on it. Well, he has access to her heart rate. Why didn't he just check that earlier? How you house the baby? They come. The heart rate is way too high. 105. That's not that high, especially considering the situation there is. She just sprinted away from an alien laser beam. If anything, I'd kind of love. She's freaking calm right now. Oh cool, we're moving from the computer to the phone. The world is at war. I'm coming for us. Hey, at least he's finally about to go to a more interesting filming location. Locked. Never mind. The door is locked. My daughter's in danger. I have to go help her. You know, on second thought, I do kind of like this chair. I'm coming. I'm trying to lay down. Oh, yes. Hurry up, baby. Faith, you're gonna have to get your ass in gear, ma'am. This is some pathetic effort I'm seeing out of you. Hurry, you're almost there. Keep moving. Good news. She was able to make it into a car that's leading her to safety. Bad news. It's a Tesla. You think you have more power than you really do. You think you have the power to have saved, ma'am? Oh, awkward timing with this explosion. I kind of have to do an ad right now. In a world dominated by subscription services, it can be really easy to lose track of all your recurring payments. But this is where today's sponsor Rocket Money comes in. Rocket Money is a personal finance app that allows you to manage subscriptions, lower bills, make a custom budget, and increase your savings all in one place. When I first signed up for Rocket Money, I realized I had been paying for two Hulu accounts, and I wasn't using either of them. Even more recently, they helped me realize that I was paying for Google Drive and Dropbox. Those are the same thing. You don't need both of them. But not only does Rocket Money help you keep track of all your subscriptions by showing them all in one place once you've connected your bank account. But depending on the service, they might even be able to cancel it for you with just a few tabs. No more trying to navigate a website's convoluted UI or sitting on hold with customer service. Just sit back and let Rocket Money do the hard work for you. They can also help you lower your bills with, again, very minimal effort on your part. I tried this a few months ago with my internet bill, and honestly, I went into it thinking this probably won't work, but I might as well give it a shot, you know. And then they saved me over $100. I didn't have to talk to anybody or send a bunch of emails back and forth. I just hit a few buttons, and then they lowered my internet bill. It was awesome. Rocket Money has helped its customers save up to $740 a year when using all of the app's premium features. And they've also helped customers save over $500 million in cancel subscriptions. So if you want to save more and spend less, join the over $5 million customers using Rocket Money today. Go to RocketMoney.com slash Drew Gooden or click the link in the description to get started for free. Thank you to RocketMoney for sponsoring today's video, and now back to the movie. Classic, infuriating movie trope here where one character has vital information that would help everybody, but the person they're trying to communicate it to won't listen. And I need to talk to you about something. I'll have to answer that right now. Dad, this is important. I have information I think you might want to know. Not now, Dad. The government. No, no, no, no. I don't want to hear nothing you have to say. Dad, listen. I got to go. There are so many jump cuts in this movie it's actually insane. Like I think they just filmed every line individually and forgot they needed to account for conversational timing. So then they had to fix it by putting all these cuts in that you can't do in a movie. YouTube video, sure. Do all the jump cuts you want. But you got to raise your standards a little bit if you're universal pictures. Now to be clear, I don't blame any of the individual editors for this. In fact, I don't know if I could imagine a more difficult editing task than to have to make something comprehensible. With the source material that they were given. Essentially, Amazon gave these two people a photo of a green screen and a handful of ice cube reaction shots and said, make a movie. And technically, they did because we're watching. Sometimes I wonder though if they even knew what was going to be on the computer when they filmed or if the plan was just get a shot of ice cube looking concerned and then we'll figure out the rest later. Because not only do they reuse shots like crazy, but there's times where something so inconsequential happens that it feels like it was just shoved in after the fact. All right, time to fly this drone. Oh wait, I can't. I could earlier, but now I can't. I need a level five password. So I'm going to DM someone else in the government and ask for a level five password. And now I can see the drone. What a fun obstacle to just throw in for no reason at all. Did it make the movie better? Or did it just make it longer? Our forces are positioned and ready to engage right now. What do you think, Mr. President? I see no other option to initiate this war of the world. He said it. He said it. That's too many of them. What are we going to do? We're going to initiate a Star War. China and the US have joined forces in what is an unprecedented collaboration. On the song of the summer, the world's governments have finally put aside their differences in an effort to protect the home planet. Who is saying this? Who is talking right? Such a heartwarming sequence here. A real glimpse into what life might be like if we all just got along. And the best part is we get to watch ice cube watch it happen. Got him. Got him. Took your ass out. Take your inner black asses back home. Meanwhile, faith isn't doing so hot. She's... She's pregnant. I thought that I could stop the bleeding if I took it out. I thought I could stop the bleeding by pulling out the one object that was stopping me from bleeding. Why didn't that work? Gotta put some pressure on that wound, man. No, Mark, no. But I work for Amazon. Packing supplies are all I know. Oh no, please don't die. Hold on, Faith. I look... Oh, wait, my girlfriend's calling. He's me posted. Are you talking to the cube, baby girl? What do you want? Big discovery here about the aliens in their intent. I'm going to tell you what. Big discovery here about the aliens in their intentions. Why are they going after the chicks? These little guys are drawn to data. These things eat data. Exactly. Wait a minute. This whole attack is just a big diversion to get those tripods to the data center. And those tripods are just Trojan horses to get those little bugs into the surface. I feel like I have to point out that that's not how Trojan horses were. A Trojan horse is when you sneak something nefarious inside of something that appears harmless so the people you're trying to attack let their guard down. I don't think that quite counts when you're talking about a 50-foot walking laser beam. Guys, I try a robot's destroying the city. How fun is that? I just hope there aren't a bunch of smaller robots inside of it who tried to steal my Facebook memories. Oh no, my Facebook memories! I never should have trusted you. No, no, no, no, no! I remember they take out the trash today. So sad. It's like she's dying all over again. And how is he going to remember to take out the trash now? It kind of seems like he already forgot the part about being nice to the kid. Jesus, dang! I love how often in this movie Ice Cube exasperatedly takes off his glasses only to just have them back on immediately in the next scene. Also, in case you didn't pick up on the insane plot twist here. Turns out the aliens aren't here to take over the world. They're here to eat our data. We are in utter chaos without our most precious resource our data. And because of the internet, we have a whole bunch of it. Collecting data? Oh man. The clues where they're all along. Look how hungry that robot is. Shit, Brexit's bottoming on the whole thing. Trader. Yeah, I think you're going to want to take those glasses off, man. And go ahead and put it back on. NASA warned you if you activated Goliath it could spark an invasion. Those dinosaur bureaucrats don't keep a safe eye on you. So basically this evil government surveillance program knew that the aliens were going to come eat all this data but they still wanted to collect it anyway. And it's like, okay, I guess there's almost an interesting idea here. There are a ton of billionaires and people in power who are mostly aware that their choices are actively harming the earth and the future of humanity but they continue to do it anyway because the things are doing benefit them personally. But I do think there's maybe a tad bit of irony in Amazon being the platform through which this message is conveyed. A platform that is currently using my own data to advertise groceries to me every time I pause this movie. Our most precious resource on earth is data. Also, if you've ever been on the Fast and Furious ride at Universal Studios, all of these webcam conversations have the same exact cadence as the conversations that take place on that ride. So that cockroach we'd be down in Spain? What's he got to do with this? Nothing. VP, Justice's, Chiefs of Staff, also cure. Okay. What's saying? I just sign up for this shit. Thank you for your service, Radford. You're dismissed. Stop this thing. Wait! No, no, no, no. Oh no. He's being dismissed. I'm not sure I understand, though. I might need to see five different examples of him being locked out of his computer. What? What? What? What? Oh! He got five. The other twist is that his son Dave is the disruptor and will hate the disruptor because of how disruptive he is. Is you? Is you? Yeah. In fact, he's number one on the domestic terror suspect watch list. But now that he's stuck on the outside too, they'll have to work together to save the day. He's going to have to go from hacking for the government to hacking to the government. Or... And let's pop those glasses off for a sec. Thank you, cute. Then Mark and Faith send an update photo, letting Will know that everything's okay. But it's such a bad picture that Will doesn't even seem that happy about it. Good. Good. Dad, me my disruptor. What the hell? This was supposed to be our safe space. Guys, enough. It's truly fascinating to watch a movie try to raise its stakes without any ability to do so. Because everything has to take place at his death. It's not like we can just go out to some big set piece and watch a cool fight. The best ice cube can do is send some emails, upload a YouTube video, use Photoshop to put his face into the YouTube video. Damn, Mr. Ruffer, that was bad. It's riveting stuff. Honestly, this is what movies are all about. Thelma Louise, break encryption, codecrusher, bypass firewalls, and burn out just... standard troubles. Yeah, if there's one thing we know about burnout, it'd say he's kind of a loose can. A few minutes later, that whole crew of people we were just introduced to... dies. A million hack, the hack in us. They're eating our data. Now the aliens have turned their attention to Dave. No! No! Oh no, he's gone for real this time. Ice. And you've forgetting something? Thank you. Now put him back on. You know you can't see without him. And then he sits down and then stands up, and then he goes to pick up his chair that he threw earlier. So like, wait, where the fuck was he just sitting a second ago? And I guess firefighters are there already? How did they get there so fast? It's been 12 seconds, and the world is at war. Gonna need to take my glasses off for this one. Oh, never mind guys, his son is alive! He was just using a green screen. You hadn't been worried to death, man. You should have seen it. I threw my chair on the ground. Son, I'm just so glad you're alive. For the second time today, I... I thought I lost you. His death is to... Oh wait, my girlfriend's calling me again. Girl, you've gotta stop blowing up the cube, okay? I got shit to do today. We must destroy DHS to make sure anything to get through can't get to the Goliath. No! Nice! That's the building I'm in! No, no. Dad, you're gonna have to get the code into the server's manual. They will kill you, Bill. It's a damn suicide mission! I said I'll be fine. I just needed to put my glasses back on. Okay, so the plan is, Will is going to leave the room. I just hope his legs have an atrophy and all the time he's been sitting there. He's gotta go take this virus and put it in that delicious data that the aliens will eat and then melt or whatever. I don't actually really know. There's just one problem with this plan though. The only way to transport this virus is with a thumb drive. And Mr. Cube doesn't have one. Put it on the thumb drive. I don't have a thumb drive. What do you mean you don't have a thumb drive? What? Dude, everybody has a thumb drive. Shit, I bet even Mark has one. Even I have a thumb drive. I knew it. Faith can load it here and I can get it to you. Half. Prime air. So this is where the movie goes from good to great. I mean, rarely do we get to see the streaming service a movie is on become so integral to the plot of the movie. All right. Oh, it's the future of delivery. It's a high time it actually feels kind of insane that I even needed to have a prime subscription in order to watch this. To watch this movie that is about to climax with Amazon saving the world. Can you to replace an official order on Amazon to activate the drone? I like when this guy is flying the Amazon drone but then the aliens sent out their drones to try to blow it up. So then the other guy starts piloting a third drone that he uses to blow up these drones before they can blow up the Amazon drone. I'm down. The job team. Oh no, the drone fell down. There's no way to get it back up from here. Okay. So what do you think that they're going to do to get out of this situation? I'll give you a couple seconds to think about it. Got your answer? Great. So if you said that they would use facial recognition software to identify this homeless person on the street so that they could text him on the phone and ask him to flip over the drone, you're correct. But also a little psychotic for even thinking of that. Jesus Christ, man. But of course, you know, he doesn't just trust this unknown number at face value. He has to be bribed a little bit first. So they give him a thousand dollar Amazon gift card. And without hesitation, he sprints into the face of danger to flip that thing over. Oh my god, what a choice. I'm pretty sure that guy exploded, by the way, but that doesn't matter to us because the camera never turns around to look. In his first taste of real action in the entire movie, Will gets grabbed by an alien tentacle that penetrated the building and then he says this. He's dead everywhere. Nope, there was just one. And all he had to do to kill it was tell it to move. Move, bitch, get up from where? Just like the song. Where's that from? Come in, man. And now for the scene that this entire movie has led up to. No. I love you guys. In hindsight, he'd actually make sense why he spent his entire life in that room because about five minutes after he left it for the first time, he died. Maybe he was onto something. Anyway, now it's everybody else's turn to be alone in a room pretending to react to someone's death. Huh, not so easy, is it? Maybe we shouldn't have been so hard on him, you know? Especially now that he's gone. I just, I miss him so much. His quips, his glasses. Oh, never mind, he's okay. Oh, happy ending. I guess nobody died in the movie, except for the millions of people who definitely died in the movie. But we don't have to think about that. I just got off of the president. He wants you to pioneer a new day to collect and protocol that doesn't invade people's personal privacy. Sorry, sir, but not for me. If I can't invade people's personal privacy, then I'm just not interested. This war of the world. And that's the movie. It's a total abomination. It's a hoot and a half. It's already being called the worst movie of the decade. But it begs the question, how the fuck did this happen? Look, I refuse to believe that a single person involved in making this was not aware of how terrible it is. I mean, my first thought when I initially saw people posting clips and making fun of it was, oh, Amazon made a terrible movie on purpose to get free publicity and its work. If this movie was only kind of bad, no one would be talking about it. And even if it was somehow really good, they still wouldn't be talking about it. I think they put out this steaming pile of product placement-ridden garbage to trick me and 10,000 other YouTubers into making full videos about it. The streaming services have caught on to the effectiveness of rage bait and just like those data-hungry robots, none of us could resist taking a bite. Really though, the more I read about the production process, the more I actually kind of think this was not intentional and it just happened to suck. The biggest factor being that this movie was filmed five years ago during COVID lockdown. It wasn't a conscious artistic choice to shoot at the way they did, although they have now retroactively tried to say that it was. They did it because they could either put each actor in a separate room and try to piece it all together in post or they just couldn't make a movie at all. And that makes sense, you know, everything was pretty janky in 2020. We were all just trying to adjust to that new reality. But then they sat on this movie for five years. We are well past the era of late-night shows being filmed on a webcam and sports being played in front of empty stadiums. Movies have been normal again for a while now. Nothing else looks like this. It's so out of place in the year 2025 that you can't help but stare at it. So I don't think they necessarily set out to make a terrible movie. I think they just ended up with one and didn't know what to do with it. But by waiting until audiences' expectations had long since returned to their pre-COVID standards and would be infinitely more critical of something that was shot exclusively on Microsoft Teams, it created the perfect storm of negative attention. It is the best advertisement for Prime Air that Amazon could have possibly hoped for. We're all voluntarily talking about it for free. So you know what? We gotta stop, guys. Okay? No more fueling the fire. No more tweets, no more reactions, no more YouTube videos. From this point forward, or at least, let's say starting tomorrow, whatever tomorrow's, no more uploading YouTube videos about this movie. Okay? And we obviously can't assign that rule retroactively. Anything uploaded today or in the past, it's fine. You know, because we had an agreed on the rule. Yeah, I know I'm pretty late with this video. People have been talking about this movie for like three weeks now, which in internet time is about a year and a half. But I just felt like I needed to wait for something else to come out. An article that explains how this all happened. I don't know maybe a single mention of the movie from any of its cast or crew, but there has been nothing. Every day, I Google War of the Worlds 2025 and hopes I can find one little nugget, one extra piece of insight into this debacle of a film, and there's just radio silence to an almost alarming degree. Not one person from this movie has acknowledged its existence in any way whatsoever, positive or negative. It's like the opposite of a press tour, where instead of sending all the actors out to do interviews and podcasts, they made everyone sign NDAs. Even Ice Cube, who posts on Instagram 400 times a day, has not mentioned this movie at all. Andreah Savage has a long list of credits in her bio that doesn't include this movie, but does include the hashtag, but hold. Great, now I have to click on that. There goes my afternoon. There's such a collective lack of acknowledgement here that I'm actually concerned that maybe none of the actors even know that they were in this movie. Like they have no memory of it, and that's terrifying. Someone needs to tell them. Is someone besides me, of course, because I've already tried it. It doesn't seem to be working. I guess whatever happened behind the scenes of this movie is just gonna remain a mystery. Is what I thought, and then something incredible happened. Huge shout out to a YouTube channel called Tony's Film Club for interviewing the producer and main editor of this movie. This is exactly the kind of thing I was hoping would come out to provide some clarity, you know? And after watching this interview, I am somehow more confused about this movie than I was before. But a lot of the critiques of the movie are dealing with personal, very subjective things that people dislike. Yeah, it did confirm a couple of things we all just kind of assume. One that the actors did film almost all their parts individually. Those were remote. Those were done with the director only. Which explains the total lack of chemistry in every single scene. And number two, that editing this monstrosity was an absolute nightmare. There's some scenes where you end up with about 10 video layers, 10 performance layers. And you have to keep track of all this, make it work, make sure that everybody is able to track and follow what matters on the screen. It's a mountain to keep track of. I genuinely feel bad for this guy for having had to put in hundreds, if not thousands of hours, in order to make this movie come to life. Was I scared of entering this project? Yes, I was terrified, frankly. Another thing is that the producer seems to genuinely believe that people just aren't understanding their vision. Like you being a dad, saving his kids and family. That was the movie's intent. They seem to think that they've made this really heartfelt movie about a loving family and are annoyed that other people aren't seeing it that way. I said the movie was received as an enormous disappointment as if it was to be this gigantic $200 billion temple. It was never intended for that. Got it. Okay, so then it doesn't matter that it was bad because it wasn't supposed to not be. From the critics standpoint, they went into expecting something much grand or in scope. Probably by way of the title being misleading in a word of the world to imply something giant can't it? Yeah. And I think that's fair. Also, you knew that this was going to be the title the entire time you were making the movie. It's not like they dropped that on you last minute. For the world. But the real shock from this video is that apparently Amazon was not involved in the production of this movie at all. Was this one giant advertisement for Amazon? No, it wasn't. Amazon didn't see it until the movie was all the way down. The creation of Mark was simply because during COVID who was bringing us all these products to keep us going? Amazon driver, these individuals are heroes. And that's why we portrayed him as a bumbling idiot because he's so stupid. I mean, important. We wanted it to be recognizable that this is a part of society. Okay, I guess that explains Mark's character. But then what about the drone? The drone? We had to figure out how do you get ice cube? The USB stick with a virus ready to be uploaded when he's two miles away from where Mark is. Right, of course. You know, and there's just no other way to do that. And the logo on the screen the entire time? There's the drone that Davis piloted. And then there's the drone that Mark is piloting. It was very confusing for a time the edit when you didn't have the primary overlay. Okay, but what about the part where they spent like a full minute on Amazon's website? That was the only way that the drone, which was pre-programmed to deliver to the correct address, could get to cube. Right, of course, you know, and that's not the kind of thing that you could just take creative liberties on. If people saw you using an Amazon drone, but they didn't get to see the entire process of something being ordered online, they would be outraged. Yes. Okay, so that explains all that. What about the Amazon gift card? The Amazon gift card, I would like to address that. LA is a huge homelessness problem. But we want it to also take the every man who is not appreciated and give that person the opportunity to help save the world, which he does. Yeah, he does. Reluctantly after being bribe. He is incentivized with a financial offer and how do you get someone like that immediate money cash in hand? Amazon gift card. It's the only way. So does this mean that after Amazon licensed it, they did not add any changes. They did not say put our logo in here. Anything like that? Nothing. Well, there you have it. They made this entire movie about Amazon saving the world and it wasn't even because Amazon told them to. They just did it out of the goodness of their own hearts. I actually think that makes it worse. Amazon saw the Amazon character and identified, clearly, this would work wonderfully for them on their platform worldwide. Here we are, cut to three weeks later and it's a smash hit for Amazon. For all the right reasons. Thank you so much for watching. Remember, if you didn't like this video, it's not because it wasn't entertaining or that I was two and a half weeks late to this whole trend or that I'm ugly. It's that you didn't understand it. It wasn't supposed to be good and it's your fault for expecting it too. All right, I'll see you guys next time. It's a coat's classic in the make and I can already see that.