A few months ago to celebrate my friend's birthday, I went on a victory casino cruise, and not only did everyone get seasick almost immediately, but we also lost all the money we brought into gamble with. It was one of the best days of my life. For a good portion of the past century, getting on a boat that reeks of piss and wobbling your way out just far enough into the ocean so that laws don't exist anymore was one of the only ways to legally gamble in the United States. It had such a convoluted barrier of entry that most people could go their entire lives without ever being tempted to do it. Just don't go to Nevada and you'll probably never see a casino. In 2024, this is no longer the case. Only on fan doors. Raph Kings, that MGF prize pig. Underdog, hard rock's best. Selly's best. SPN bet. Bet. 3.6.5. If you watch any sports at all, ads for sports betting have become inescapable. One of you muted every commercial and closed your eyes until the game came back on. It's still plastered everywhere. Raph Kings' promos pop up in the middle of a play. There's bed MGM billboards behind home play. Fandool logos on the court, on the microphone. They come at you from every angle, pepper spraying you in the face so you don't notice they just pulled your pants down. They've made it so watching sports and betting on sports are just two sides of the same coin, like you can't have one without the other. It's become so normalized that it might be easy to forget that gambling can be kind of bad, actually. About 10 million people in the US alone struggle with gambling in some way, a good portion of which are under the age of 25. Gambling addicts attempt suicide at a rate 15 times higher than the general population. The average debt of a gambling addict can range from 15,000 to $90,000. But where most people would see this as a problem, a few people saw it as an opportunity. All that extra money that could be siphoned from struggling families and into the pockets of like 12 CEOs. And we're not doing that because... So in 2018, the Supreme Court overruled the federal ban on sports betting. And since then, Americans have collectively lost over $245 billion on it. That's almost $1,000 per person. And that number was from last year. But the bombardment of playful advertising filled with famous celebrities would make you think it's just a harmless fun game you can play on your phone. Kevin Hart, Post Malone, Chris Rock, LeBron James, Kevin Hart, Peyton Manning, Jamie Fox, Eric Andre, Pat Naswald, Vanessa Hudgens, the guy from that Kendrick Lamar song, Kevin Hart, even the talk to a podcast is sponsored by Better. Why is it always the people you trust the most? You don't need to know everything about every sport. Good, because I know. Yeah, me. All you need is a feeling and a phone. That is such a bold way to advertise your product. You don't have to know anything about sports in order to bet on them. In fact, we would prefer you didn't. Look, this guy's just chilling in a hot tub. He doesn't even know what sport he bet on and he won money. So go ahead. Just open the app and start mashing. But I don't know, like, where do you think they got all the money to shell out to these celebrities? Could it be that maybe PrizePix isn't the secret gateway to riches beyond my wildest imaginations and maybe they're just trying to get my debit card numbers so they can take all my disposable income? Whether or not you think sports betting should be illegal and I'm not even necessarily saying it should be, the fact that they're allowed to advertise it like this is fucking insane. Imagine a cigarette commercial that was like, oh my god, this is so good. This is the best time I've ever felt in my life. Typically, the only tobacco ads you see are like anti-vaping PSAs. And I hope there's a future where advertising for betting apps is regulated in a similar way. You can still bet on sports. You can still smoke cigarettes if you want to. It's not illegal. But you're not bombarded with the temptation to do it every time you turn on a basketball game. Even though it's only been six years since the federal ban on sportsbooks was overturned, technology has already evolved well beyond what was available at the time. And now the gambling has gone from being in a place you have to go to to do it to being accessible on your phone at any moment. There's nothing stopping these apps from trying to lure you in constantly. And they're really good at doing that. The diction is intensified, he says, by how much the gambling companies know about each use. That data was used to tailor offers and push notifications to keep the guy in action. They knew the live state, the customer live stage it was at. So win back, they described it. So people that have given up gambling for a while and they're trying to get them to come back. Just by using these apps, you're giving them data about your gambling habits, which they can then weaponize against you. They realize around 2 p.m. every Sunday is when you're most likely to interact with the app because you're watching 19 games at once and you're starting to get a little restless. They can tailor make a push notification just for you. Maybe they'll boost the odds of a third quarter Tyree kill touchdown or they'll show you a parlay that 50,000 other people have bet on and that many people can't all be wrong. Let's talk about parlay as for a second because I think that's one of the biggest contributors to the exponential rise of sports betting. It's parlay time. Possibly a parlay is when you combine multiple bets into one bet, significantly decreasing the odds of it hitting but massively boosting the payout you'll win if it does. It's basically the difference between winning a few dollars for correctly calling one coin flip or winning thousands of dollars if you can get that coin to land on heads 12 times in a row. You're so distracted by the possibility of how much you could win that you're not even considering the fact that you definitely won't. Parlay's are the lottery ticket of sports betting and these apps have made it so easy to make one whenever you want. The only thing stopping you from putting together a parlay that frankly doesn't even make sense is your own imagination. Because of parlay's I think for a lot of people gambling has become death by a thousand paper cuts. Maybe instead of losing a lot of money all at once you're just losing a little bit of money all the time. Sometimes you'll even lose money in a way that feels like you almost won. Ah, five out of six. I was so close but that means I'll definitely win next time. My only personal experience with online sports betting was a couple years ago when I saw underdog fantasy was offering to match your first deposit up to $100. And I thought, okay, I'll give it a try. I watched a lot of football. Maybe I can finally make back some of the money I've spent over the years supporting my stupid shitty team. So I put in a hundred bucks. They doubled it. And slowly over the course of the next two months I lost $25 every week until it was all gone. Now if I'm being honest I think this was actually best case scenario for me. I consider myself lucky that the few times I've tried gambling it hasn't gone well for me because I have no positive association with it. In the same way that I have no desire to smoke cigarettes because the first time I did I smoked two back to back for some reason and was nauseous the rest of the night. I have no desire to gamble because I've only ever lost money doing it. So even though underdog managed to get a hundred bucks out of me I actually think they would have preferred if I won a little bit first. When betting apps give out these kind of introductory offers it's not just so they can get a bunch of free money although that's definitely part of it. They're trying to create a customer for life. And $5 and get $150 in bonus bets. $5 gets $200 back. $200 back. $200 back. Up to $200. Online sportsbooks know that the best way to get people addicted to their product is to make that first big win as easy as possible. So they'll learn you in with an offer that seems too good to be true because all of that is pennies compared to what they're raking in from the people who are hooked. They give you free money to start with. They'll let you try again if your first bet doesn't work. They'll let you throw in one leg of a parlay that has essentially a 100% chance of hitting. They are desperate to make sure you have a good time. They want every time you see that app icon on your phone to think about the rush you felt when you turned $5 into 100 so you keep chasing that feeling forever. I just managed to outsmart them by being so unbelievably bad at sports betting that I never even came close to winning. But because I was curious to see how much online sports gambling has evolved since I tried it a couple years ago and because I would never leave a stone unturned in the pursuit of research I decided for this video I should try it one more time. So I signed up for the only legal sports book in my home state of Florida which I assume is named after famous internet sex symbol Hardrock Nick. Balls tugged on one by one. Their introductory offer is that they'll give you another chance to bet if your first one doesn't win. On the surface that almost sounds like free money but it's not like you can bet once, lose, and then just take your money back. You still have to give them the money. You're probably just going to lose twice for the price of one. But hey check this out. I've already unlocked a 1x multiplier which means for every dollar I earn I walk away with $1. I spent the next 12 minutes hard at work concocting the smartest and most guaranteed parlays the world has ever seen. With all my bets placed I could finally sit back, relax, and enjoy a stress-free Sunday afternoon. The next few hours felt like a roller coaster but in spite of it all I was determined to come out on top. Since I only lost 5 other bets I was just $61 from breaking even. Now I know what you're thinking Drew, how could you have possibly known the bills were going to beat a team significantly worse than them? What are you some kind of genius? No. I prefer Savon. The truth is none of this would have been possible without my good luck charm Michael McCorkl Jones. You can look it up, that's his real name. Ever since I saw him hit the gritty at the pro bowl a few years ago I knew I needed a metal poster of him to hang up on my wall. And thanks to today's sponsor Displate that's finally possible. Are you tired of waking up to your boring empty walls? You try to hang up posters but your hammer didn't come with instructions so you don't know how to use it. Well why don't you go ahead and throw that thing in the trash because you don't need one to hang up a display. Displates are high quality metal posters that help you show off all your favorite interests whether it's Elden Ring, Halo 3, or a minion from the movie Minions. And the best part is you can hang them up in a matter of seconds without any tools and without putting any holes in your walls. It has over 2 million artworks to choose from including tons of officially licensed designs from brands like Marvel, Star Wars, and Minions from the movie Minions. They've even got a product called Textra that brings your posters to life with tactile textures and 3D contours. Finally, a poster that's fun to touch. If you've been procrastinating your holiday shopping there's never been a better time to snag a display. Not only are there great gifts for anyone in your life but they're celebrating Black Friday with their biggest discount of the year. You can get up to 44% off your order by going to the link in the description, display.com or by using my code Drew at checkout. Thank you so much to display for sponsoring today's video which unfortunately will now continue. Alright, so I've been using this app for a little over a week now and even though I did win a few more bets, all I've really managed to do is turn my initial $100 into zero. It's all gone. I think they know they're on the verge of losing me for good because they're really ramping up the notification. Most days I'm getting at least one every hour. They even offered me another second chance bet this time up to $500. They are so confident based on everything I've shown them so far that it seems they're willing to give me any amount of money because it doesn't matter, I'm just going to lose it all anyway. Even in my very limited time using this app, I can already see the traps they're setting for me and I am falling for them. For some reason I've done multiple parlays that are contingent upon something happening at the beginning of a game. They offer a bunch of bets that are based on first quarter stats and I realized first hand why they do this. Because that one leg can cook your entire parlay immediately. But at that point you've already committed to betting on this game and there's so much more game to bet on. So you do. And before you know it, you're betting on Kishon George to make five threes. Why did I do that? I don't even know who that is. Why did I think Jake Paul was going to knock out Mike Tyson? I think that fight was never ending in a knockout. They punched each other like four times. Obviously they were just in it for the money and I knew that going into it. I only did this bet because they boosted my odds and they only boosted my odds because they knew it wasn't going to happen anyway. It's 2024. How am I still getting scammed by Jake Paul? And on the flip side when I do win a bet, sometimes I'm not even that happy about it because I'm just like, I should have bet more. You start getting carried away doing the math. I turned $10 into $30 but I could have turned 100 into 300, 1,000 into 3,000. Oh my God. It's infinite money. And I think that's one of the most dangerous things about gambling is that sometimes it works. It's a hobby that technically could go well for you if you get very lucky and quit at the exact right time, which you won't and the casinos are banking on the fact that you won't. Problem gamblers aren't just chasing a feeling. They're chasing this idea that maybe they'll win the lottery. A lot of gamblers can recognize that they have a problem but see the problem as the way out of the problem. I think the feeling at the time was if you can just get lucky here somewhere, then potentially there's a way in making this all go away. I suppose the flip side to that as well, Aaron, it was enabling me to just gamble as much as I wanted as well. If I just have one good day, I can win it all back. Yes, I dug this huge hole for myself. But if I just keep digging, I might be able to find that diamond I've been desperately searching for. But the sad reality is, even if you find the diamond, you're just going to feel so good doing it that you'll probably dive right back into the mines looking for another one. The truth is, if I had that big win, I would have just spent it anyway. A lot of the higher ups at these companies will refuse any responsibility for creating new gambling addicts over the past few years. They'll make the argument that they're just addicted to their phone and our app just happens to be on it. I don't believe that there is an addiction to mobile betting any more than there is, an addiction to utilization of your phone for any other reason. You don't think adding a layer of betting makes the phone more addictive than just tooling around Instagram? There is problem gambling. It is a real problem. Whether it's gotten bigger or it's just become more noticeable because sports betting is legal, I think is an unknown. Really? Hey, they'd be gambling anyway. Whether it's on our app that sends 30 push notifications a day and is linked to their bank account or only available in a state on the other side of the country, is totally irrelevant. And while there are obviously some people for whom that is true, you cannot deny the fact that making it so goddamn easy to bet anything at any time is leading to more people gambling who wouldn't have otherwise. You're dangling a piece of candy inches away from people's faces and then saying, Hey, it's not our fault they grabbed it. They still would have grabbed it even if it was 2000 miles away. Since this is all still relatively new in the US, maybe we'll see more legislation in the future to combat this avalanche. In some countries, they no longer allow celebrities to appear in sportsbook ads or they've banned the ads from appearing during sporting events altogether. America is stealing this Wild West infancy where all these apps are just scrambling to find a way onto your phone before regulations start kicking in. But maybe in the future? No, I'm gonna be honest. It's hard to imagine that happening. I think it's too late to put the toothpaste back in the tube. The leagues are making too much money off it already. Of course, they want to shove betting apps down everyone's throats. It gives people more of a reason to watch the games, especially bad ones. While most people would turn off a 20 point blowout in the fourth quarter, you're still glued to the screen because you need CD-LAM to get 12 more yards for your parlay to hit. They figured out a way to make every moment matter even if it doesn't. You want to make every game interesting? Step one, open the Bedium GM Sportsbook. You know what to do. It's not just sports, though. It seems like these days you can gamble on absolutely anything. You can bet on celebrity breakups. You can bet on which white lotus character will return in season three. You can bet on the presidential election. And oh my god, so many people did. Hundreds of millions of dollars were tied up in political bets this year. And if that's not indicative of a nationwide gambling epidemic, I don't know what is. But I'll admit, I'm a little conflicted about this. Because on one hand, gamifying every aspect of our lives only gives more power to those with influence. It creates a financial incentive for spreading deliberate misinformation. It can make you question the motive behind everything you see in here. But on the other hand, XQC lost $700,000 betting on the election. And that's really fun. If you don't know who XQC is, he's a streamer who, at least in every clip I've seen of him, seems to be speaking a language he invented and no one else can understand. Game government and no one in the world in the best sample. No, you can't. Please invite us. He's also one of the many streamers who've massively increased their wealth over the past few years by taking sponsorships from offshore crypto-based online casinos, helping them and the website they stream it on explode in popularity. At almost any point of any day, you can go to the Slots tab on kick.com and see someone who is zonk out of their mind. He's bloodshot red, 12 hours into non-stop slot spins, desperately trying to win back all the money they've lost so far. Oftentimes in a situation so dire that even the chat, with no personal stakes involved and only there for entertainment, is begging them to stop. But they can't. They're on autopilot. Every loss is money that needs to be won back, and every win is just more money to gamble with. I randomly opened this guy's stream one day and watched in real time as he won almost $100,000 and then say this. 95,000, that's fucking huge. We're a tenth of the way back. A tenth? This dude was down a million dollars on big bass bash. Now to most people watching, it's pretty easy to say, hey man, you should probably quit while you're ahead. No, $100,000 isn't a million, but it's a lot more than zero. The problem is someone in this state of mind isn't capable of seeing it that way. He's not even in Thursday afternoon with the rest of us. He's still on the tail end of Wednesday night. So the rational part of his brain too subdued to muster anything more than a mumble asks his chat if he should end it there. Three of the better these. They all scream, of course you should, but it falls on deaf ears. He's yet to stop spamming spins for even a second. This man is no longer in control of his actions. He's a zombie, relegated to the passenger seat of his own mind as it careens towards the conclusion everyone watching knows is inevitable. But there's nothing he can do to stop the momentum. I have to quit at a certain point. I have to give up. It's a certain point I gotta give up. Oh my god. At a certain point I gotta give up. Dude, that dog demolished the bowies. Oh my god, that's crazy. Lost over a million dollars today. There's nothing in there. All he can do now is sit in the reality of what just happened. What the fuck? Beautiful girl. Dude. Come to terms with the fact that despite his and everyone else's better judgment, he got dog houses. Dog houses, what did it? No dog houses, what defeated me? I got dog houses. I got dog houses. I got a full dog house. Full dog houses, dude. Full dog houses. Full fucking dog houses, dude. Dude. Dude. I got dog houses. Did I just watch this guy ruin his life? I don't know. Actually, the thing is, it's hard to take streams like this at face value. There's a very well-documented history of streamers on kick, high stakes gambling, with money that was given to them by the website they're playing on. So not only are the stakes not high, but it's technically not even gambling. It's just promotion. The entire goal of these streams is just to make the people watching them think they too can go win life-changing money on AskCoin.com. So maybe this is all bullshit. Maybe the only real thing about these streams are the holes he punched into the wall behind him. Maybe he'll miraculously be back in a couple days with a suspiciously large balance after seeming to lose everything. But clips like this are just the flip side of an online ecosystem currently doing everything it can to convince impressionable teenagers scrolling through TikTok and YouTube shorts that gambling is awesome actually and you got to start doing it. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Oh my God. Oh my God. We're going to go. BANG, BANG, BANG, BANG, BANG. Woo! Yeah! Yeah! That's a great feeling, babe. Now some people have accused these websites of rigging the odds in favor of the streamers, so it's easier for them to farm these clips. And as far as I'm aware, there's no proof of that. I think the misrepresentation of odds here is simply due to the fact that these websites can just keep depositing money into their accounts whenever they lose, giving them unlimited funds to play with. Unless Rubat's gonna give me free money, I think that's actually it. I really just need a highway to give us a ton of free money. If you're given infinite money, you can just keep betting until you hit a jackpot. For them, there's no such thing as rock bottom, a philosophy that very much does not translate to real life. In real life, you can hit rock bottom, and when you do, there's no texting how we to get yourself out of it. What's especially concerning about these kinds of streams is that while sports betting apps are at least targeting mostly grown men, the majority audience for a lot of these streamers are teenagers and young adults. People whose brains have not finished developing yet. People who would have a harder time distinguishing between entertainment and real life and have less of an ability to evaluate risk compared to people much older than them. It is statistically proven that people who are exposed to gambling at a young age are more likely to develop problems with it later in life. So maybe don't do this? Is that too much to ask? There are a few different types of gambling streamers. There are the ones like Aiden Ross, who have been very transparent about the fact that money is the only thing that matters to them, and there's no line they would be unwilling to cross and pursue to that. Then there's streamers like Steve Will Do It, who admitted in an interview with Coffee Zilla that the only reason he started taking these sponsorships was because he used to have a gambling problem, and it was a way for him to continue to gamble without having to use his own money. In other words, he knows from personal experience the harm a gambling addiction can cause, but he has no problem promoting that to other people as long as it's not his money they're losing. But then there's also plenty of streamers that don't seem to think they're doing anything wrong. They put their head in the sand and make excuses because the money's too good for them to turn down. Technicmerks, for example. Nick gets pretty defensive when people question the fact that he spends one week out of every month spinning slots on kick.com. Oh yeah man, sorry, forgot a bunch of children watch my streams. Like dude, you spent the past six years streaming Fortnite and Call of Duty. If you don't think the majority of your audience is young men, I don't know what to tell you. And don't even get me started on Drake. I know a large portion of his audience is underage because those are the people he's trying to find. So while obviously these websites who use decentralized currency and are based out of a small island country with laughably loose gambling restrictions in order to skirt federal regulations are mostly to blame for the damage they've caused. These celebrities and streamers who've helped popularize them are very much complicit. When you build an audience online, whether you like it or not, there is a parasocial element to it. There are people in your fan base who look up to you and trust you and every time you sell something to them, you are leveraging that parasocial relationship in order to financially benefit. And I'm not gonna act like I'm perfect. I sell merch. I have sponsors. I just didn't add read like three minutes ago. And my god, I feel like the bare minimum with the sponsorship is does this product actively hurt the people that use it? Yes, then I'm not gonna do that. I get that it can sting to turn down a lot of money. And if the numbers people have floated around are accurate, it is a stupid amount of money. But for some of these people who could already live ten full lifetimes without ever having to worry about bills ever again, when is it enough? It's just crazy to me. It's like thank you to everyone who supports what I do. You've given me my dream job, this life of luxury I'm so lucky to have. And in return, I give to you a crippling addiction. Sorry, I wanted to buy a house in Mexico. We got another place because you can't do it in America. You have to go somewhere else. So we went somewhere else and we got another place. Comment dramatic, but I'm a little concerned where this is all headed. People like to talk about iPad babies who are burning all their dopamine receptors before they even reach preschool. But what is a slot machine if not just a giant iPad? Scientifically engineered to be as mesmerizing as possible so you don't even realize what you're letting it take from you. $1,000 in fast pins if $5,000 is spent. Look at that. $194,000 grand. Nothing is due. Oh, well that's $1,000. Gambling can be addictive enough on its own even before you add in all this social pressure. The transition from casual gambler to full blown addict can happen so gradually. A lot of people don't even realize it's happened to them until it's too late. And when everyone around you from celebrities and commercials to all your favorite streamers are just making it seem like it's no big deal, it's fun. Everybody does it. Can you truly recognize the seriousness of what you're getting yourself into? I think all we can really do for the time being is try to fight back against the normalization of gambling. So what do you say we all get together and call a timeout? What's that? There he tried that for hate. We need to stop it. So let's take this moment. To change the momentum. And call a timeout. On sheets. Together. Together. And it's not working. Even though they got shackled. Well that's not good. That's kind of the only idea I had. Gambling is not new. For as long as there's been man, there's been the primal desire to bet it all on red. But what is new is the way technology has evolved to prey on these urges in the most efficient and targeted ways possible. Using AI to send push notifications at the precise moment they know they're most likely to be open. Using a constantly evolving algorithm to offer bets that are so time sensitive you have to commit to it before you even have a chance to think about it. These apps didn't invent gambling addiction. They've just made it more accessible. You combine all of that with this system in which most people aren't paid nearly enough money for the amount of work that they do and might see gambling as one of the only ways out of that situation, only to end up exacerbating their problems. And you end up with the unmitigated economic disaster we're in now. Forgive me for using the C word, but we stumbled into the stage of capitalism where every dollar must be profited by any means necessary and for going any chance to do so would simply be seen as a missed opportunity. Advertisements in between the game? Not enough. Now they're a part of the game. I'm in the hotel that I can store my leftovers in. No, we should be filling every square inch of that thing with $12 co-cans that'll automatically charge your credit card even if you're just moving one out of the way. A YouTube outro that's just a few seconds of peaceful music and no call to action, you wish Bozo. Please go listen to the song I made with my friend Sam. I wrote the guitar for it and I think it's pretty good. Thanks for watching. It's a pleasure and hope you're never gone. These are my top 10 mistakes that slot machine players make. Number one, the biggest mistake that slot players make is playing slot machines in the first place.