Have you ever wanted to buy my cat? Well, too bad. You can't. She's not for sale. But for a limited time, you can purchase this ultra-realistic, perfectly proportioned life-size replica of Bim Bim's tiny cat buy. It's soft, it's cute, and you don't even have to feed it, unless you want to. But then it's going to start pissing and shitting all over the place, and you're going to have to clean it up. We also made this free-gast hot dog figure that's trying to squish a tiny version of me. Why? Because I thought it would be funny, and I still think it is. You can order one or both or neither of these things at uttos.com, or by clicking the link in the description. Huh! What the hell, man? Don't think I'm on me like that. Sorry, I'm just a little on edge right now. A man and I just got done watching one of the most disturbing and viscerally unsettling movies I've seen in years. If you've watched anything in theaters lately, you're probably thinking what? The substance, terrifying, despicable me for... No, I love those little yellow freaks. And the substance just made me hungry. The movie I'm talking about isn't in theaters right now. In fact, it never even was. It's called Timeless Love, and it was made by Hallmark Mystery, one of the subdivisions of Hallmark, like Family and Wines. Sorry, I know I'm already getting distracted, but did you know Hallmark made their own wines now? Because I sure didn't. Hey, Hallmark fans, I'm Andrew Nelson, one of your winemakers behind Hallmark Channel Wines. These are real wines that were crafting specific for Hallmark fans. Like how right away they addressed the elephant in the room by insisting that it's real? Because I agree, it doesn't look real. It looks like an April Fool's Day joke they forgot to take off their website, but they exist, and they made them specifically for Hallmark fans, which I think just means people who will buy anything if the branding on it is even vaguely Christmas. I ordered the wine before. I ordered Jingle and Joy. But according to the order number they gave, said no, only ordered Jingle. Was hoping for a discount? Nothing. Didn't offer anything. If it wasn't to give, Ty wouldn't be ordering, Joy. I do not recommend this product. I couldn't find you. Went to Hallmark.com. Who canceled my first wine order, and I still don't see a refund. I just re-ordered a bigger order and hopes you make it right. Yeah, that'll show them Ron. Just keep giving them more money. They'll learn their lesson eventually. We only have one wine tonight, ma'am. It's our specialty Hallmark sandwich. Mmm. Oh, it's so good. So the movie starts with what we soon find out is a dream sequence from the main character, Megan. It's a fantasy of hers that is so vivid. She wakes up from the coma she's in, thinking it was real. She isn't married. She doesn't have kids, but she thinks she does because of her dream. And that's great, Nal. But my first takeaway was, there's something about her husband that is a little distracting. Oh. You're learning beautiful. She's not going to be the one saying that to you. Careful, I will fall back asleep. Oh, we can't have that. Can't wait. How do we put this? He's very passionate. He's very passionate. Could just take a lazy day to that. I have 30 pages straight. I have a photo portrait session later this afternoon, but you don't make them play. You didn't do you? His line delivery is just so light. It's very theatrical. The choice is he makes. Well, we can't have that in. Wait, why don't you show me while I start cooking breakfast? See what you're doing? Oh, I want some. If we can have the kind of the can, sure. What's the other kind? Homemade. I'm not going to make it from scratch, kids. No, I only like it when you make it from scratch. You make cinnamon rolls, not. You make cinnamon rolls, OK? But. We've got to drive to them all. What do you want me to make for lunches? I wake up. What do you want for lunches? All right, what do you want for lunches today? They're already worried about lunch today just started. Now, I understand if they're packing lunches for school, but one of the first things he says is should we just take a lazy day today, implying it's Saturday? So why are you making lunch immediately? You're all going to have a lazy day together. Why are you so concerned about what you're next to me? You haven't even eaten your first meal, and you're already worried about your second meal. The game of hiding goes seek. OK. Gotcha. That's not a very good spot. Yeah, favorite hiding spot around the corner. Right in the kitchen. The kiddos are actually being pretty quiet this time. Hey, Thomas, do you know where the kids are? Isabel. Come on, you're going to be late to work. Late for work? I thought they were taking a lazy day today. Thomas. The whimsical music is an interesting choice here. This is not like you shook a snow globe, and now your dream's coming true. This is your whole world is disappearing. So Megan wakes up from her extremely long coma, a little disoriented, and everyone's very nice. And understanding about it. Where's Thomas? Who's Thomas? My husband's husband. Hey, Megan, you're not married. You are not married, and you don't have any children. Whatever their family you think you have, they don't exist. Hey, we're glad you just woke up, but you're being crazy. Stop it. Why would she think she's married? Or has children the accident would make her think these things? Would it? The brain is a delicate thing. OK, we don't understand it all. End of sentence. I love this doctor. How could this happen? And he's like, honestly, anything can happen. Brains don't make any sense. I expected her to be happy. Instead, she's miserable. I expected her to be happy. She hasn't smiled once all day. You know, when you wake up from a coma, you're happy. Ah, have a wake. I get to go back to my job. Honestly, from a medical standpoint, this is the best possible outcome. The best possible outcome is she wakes up and thinks she has a husband. The crash happened two months ago. So she got teabond, and she doesn't have a scratch on her? Medically, that's best case scenario. Yeah. Oh, my God. Oh, am I hurting you? No, I'm fine. No, I don't have any bruises on my body. I'm fine. Physically, I'm totally fine. It's just up here. I got children. Things should start getting back to normal now that she's home. Considering the circumstances, everyone is very nonchalant about this. Just like, all right, why aren't you home now? Be normal. She was asleep for two months. They thought she was going to die. It's like, all right. Why is she being such a bummer? Normal. Do you realize she isn't the same person? Our daughter thinks she has a husband and children. You think a shrink's going to fix that? They're acting like she just had a breakup, and she like moved back home. And she just needs to get over it. It's been one hour since she woke up from her two month coma. And they're like, is she going to be this way forever? Hi. Do you remember this? Of course. But she's also funny because she's annoyed when people question her. To them, she is making up this entire life. Imagine if you woke up from a coma and you were like, I had two wives, and I'm like, I don't know what you're talking about. We go home and I'm like, do you remember this place? And you're like, oh, yeah, I remember this place. I live here. It's like, OK, I don't know. I'm trying to figure out where the line is. So how's it been? What? Being back. What? What are you talking about? I don't know. Being awake for the first time this year. So you totally think you were married. Yeah. It still sounds weird. Get back to your usual activities. Exercise, work. Well, my work let me go because I was in a coma too long. Tough break. Well, get a new job. My job let me go because I was in a coma for too long. Oh, get a new job. No, he was like, wow, that sucks. OK, do you want to play that character? I got an accident so bad I fell asleep for two months and they fired me because my coma. Tough break. What was your job? I worked at the toilet paper factory. Get a new job. OK. OK. Keep your focus on something else while giving you perspective you might not get if you keep trying to figure out what happened to you. He's supposed to tell her what happened to her. Yeah, let me know if you ever crack what's going on in your brain. What have you thought about going back to work? I'm working on it. I don't know. I'll jump though. I'm not going back to that. I think I'm just going to go back to new a coma. I think it's made sense there. The receptionist's job is a short term, but the owner did hint at something permanent. Here is the address. Be there tomorrow morning at 9. Oh, hi. Hey, you must be the town. Thomas. It's him. It's him. Megan. Mar-Berfie. Megan or Murphy? I just- My name's Amanda Murphy. Well, which is it? Amanda or Murphy? I'm going to call you Murphy. So mostly, I just need you to schedule appointments for customers. When people call in, you should- I'm sorry. Are you all right? I'm sorry. You just look so familiar. I was in a coma for two months. This is going to sound crazy. And you were my husband. Hi. Full time. Perfect. Very bad trip toography. Can I help you? And you could bring in a couple of changes to clothes, but we just need to keep an eye on the time. So everyone has enough. Yeah. Oh. There's no way she gets through this first day and still has a job. She's being so weird. She's demonstrating her how to do her job. He's answering the phone and she should be taking notes. And then she's like, she takes a picture. Taking a flash photo of him. Well, I have an appointment about 10 minutes. So you need anything photo policy, prices, payments, cancellation policies. Anything like that, they are right in here. In this chest. They are all somewhere in this cupboard. It's like three things. She should probably tell her what the price is. So she has information. There. In here. You'll find it. There's like papers in there. Just scour through those. You'll definitely get there. No way. It's the same guy. I think I know my husband. Thomas is real. And I love him. You know those edits people do of Ross from Friends, where they take out the laugh track, and it makes him seem schizophrenic? I feel like you could do that with this movie too. Take out the quirky orchestra music and change the color grading. And suddenly you've got a psychological thriller. One day maybe. I'm sorry. How did you know my name's Clair One? And that would be so much more interesting to watch than this movie where nobody reacts to Megan, the way that they should. Megan Murphy. Natalie Gray. I'm Tommy's girlfriend. Are you sure? Yes. Amanda? Ben-Ben? Thomas Edward, Patrick, Brady, Jr. What happened to my wife, my cat, my five handsome boys? They never existed at all. What do you mean, strange man? You've been in a coma for seven years. Don't you remember? You got hit in the head with a frisbee, knocked you right out. Doctor said you've got the weakest skull they've ever seen. No. This can't be real. Unfortunately, it is real. And it never would have happened if you had a VPN. What? A virtual private network. No, I know what a VPN is. I just don't see how that would help this situation. Well, you said I got hit by a frisbee? Yeah. Aren't VPNs for like cyber security? Honestly, I don't really know. But I would love it if you'd explain it to me. Fine. Maybe I will. Tell you about today's sponsor, NordVPN. It seems like everywhere I go online, people are trying to get their filthy hands on my precious data. And quite frankly, I'm tired of it. But what's great about NordVPN is not only the typical VPN features, like data encryption and hiding your IP address on public Wi-Fi. But they also have something called Threat Protection Pro, which checks websites for viruses, scans, files for malware, and even removes annoying ads from web pages. NordVPN also helps bridge the gap between you and the rest of the world by unlocking region-specific content. I'll give you an example. I was just on vacation in Italy with some friends. And we wanted to rent the Lizzie McGuire movie from YouTube one night. But the audio would have been in Italian because that's the country that we were in. I guess our nights ruined, right? Wrong. We just used NordVPN to change our virtual location back to the States, allowing us to sit back and enjoy one of cinema's crowning achievements. You flew all the way to Italy just to watch the Lizzie McGuire movie? No, that was just one night. Okay, we did other stuff too. We watched Oceans a lot. NordVPN also has a dark web monitor that will alert you if any of the data associated with your email address gets leaked online, things like passwords and phone numbers. And it works 24 steps. So if you've been wanting to get a VPN, but you were just waiting for the right deal to come along, you're in luck, because you can get a huge discount off a two-year plan plus four extra months by going to nordvpn.com slash good. That link is also in the description. If you would rather just click on it instead of having to remember my last name. Thank you to NordVPN for sponsoring today's video. Thank you, kind young man, for explaining all that to me. As your reward, I will return your life back to the way it was. Other she is. Thanks. Yeah. See you tomorrow. Same time. Ah, yeah. Same time? Yeah, it's a job. Look out with my boss. They're the same time tomorrow? Yeah, 8 AM. He's temporary. So he wants to fire her. I just got to get through this two-year-the-boss. I mean, she's competent enough. She's just weird. I guess he can't fire her just for weird vibes. Hi. Morning. Wow, that's hot chocolate. My favorite kind, extra creamer. It's just a creamer, not a creamer. Just one sip of hot chocolate. Oh, yeah, there's extra cream in here. Chad, let me know if you put creamer in your hot chocolate. Let me just miss it. You know, the closeness that we had. I don't know if you can't really have with you when he has a girlfriend. You know, the worst part of going to the vet is when you take your sick animal in and you're trying to talk to the vet, but they're just yapping with their friend about the guy that she likes. For guy, he had his paw run over by his owner's bike. Oh, she's my other hat. She's allowed to just sit in the app while she's like examining a dog. She's like euthanizing the dog, the family's crying, and she's just like, I think he's the one. I guess, dude, Megan, could you make a favor? Could you run in there and move that barrel? It's a little bit to the right. He should be utilizing her. Yeah, he shouldn't have hired a receptionist. He should have hired an assistant. Follow Assistant, yes. That would have probably made more sense. That's like, yeah, just a little bit. Oh, that lighting is that good. That lighting is so bad. But you gotta get that barrel in frame. And that's what really matters. So what happened? What? You just said you're the best day. Oh, I just got a job. I've been grooming myself for. Grroom. That's a crime. I'll get to put together filled studies to wherever I think will be beneficial. I'm hoping Tommy can come along for those, but why do you call him Tommy? What do you mean? I just thought he went by Thomas. Well, I've known him for a while, so it's a nickname between us. That's such a funny question, as. If his legal name is Thomas, why you not call him Thomas in your girlfriend's? She can call him something else. That's a really question. Why the fuck do you call him that? Hey, Dad. Hello. My tissue's in toilet paper. His dry goods. Hi, Megan. The client Mr. Clayborne called. He's had a family emergency. What? His mother died or something. So anyway. OK, I should have known that his mother would die. I assumed when I saw the photo in his office that it was a memory. Well, sure, that's why we take pictures. She's just explaining the philosophy about the photo. Yeah, no photos are from the past. They're memories that we keep on our desks at work. They're just more vivid versions of what we think in our head. Got it. And Dad, do you hear the need? Dad. Dad, snap out of it. Your wife died what? Two hours ago, get over it. One of this movie's so impatient with people going through stuff. Really sorry for what you and your dad had to go through. Thank you. I know it's probably not my place, but I knew your mom was going to die. So if that helps you in any way. You know, in many cultures, death is a celebration of life. Yeah, she's on some board, yeah. She's cool, though. I want to go travel with her. I'm way more interested in her as a person than these other two. Hey, you don't have any plans today. Do you want to come to the aquarium? The aquarium. It's like a zoo, but it's just fish. Yeah, that sounds great. OK. Come on. Wow. A shot? Yeah. We shot it with all the regular fish. And it's not eating the fish. And I got in an accident recently, so it has been a bit of an adjustment. Did she never even daughter better accident? She rolled out of a coma and started this job. I don't know if you don't need to tell, but that's kind of a fun fact. Oh, by the way, yeah, I was conked out for two months. I just got out of the hospital yesterday. And how does the phone work? To your parents. They are still around. Yep. I have dinner with them every Sunday night, whether I like it or not. I'm not about your parents. Well, my mom just died last week. And what about your parents? Sorry, I've been talking so much about me. And what does your mom do for work? Just give them time. You'll find his wife. You seem to be sure about everything all the time. You seem so sure about everything all the time. It's like you know everything that's going to happen for the next four months. And nothing past that. It feels like, uh, I don't feel like you know me. Are you doubting your whole dream come of thing? A girlfriend doesn't matter if he's spending all his time with you. I don't want to be that person. Who a person? The person who steals someone's boyfriend. Well, is it really stealing if you know you belong together? Now you're making me sound like a stalker. Oh, little bit. Maybe she was obsessed with him before she got a long time. Yeah, that would be an interesting twist. This same movie, but the twist is she was stalking this guy for months ahead of time. And that's how she knows all this. But she just thinks it was just quirky little bleach she had. I want this to have a twist so bad. I wanted to start off as a homer and then turn into like, like that Netflix show Kevin can fuck himself that just like hard cuts into a completely different directing style. That would be so interesting. I want that. But no, it's this. It's this. You have any idea how much you could try to hug us? Yeah, well, if it's so expensive, why don't you use it? Oh, just leave that. I'll get it in a second. What is this? This isn't your purse. It's just some notes. About me. It's not what you think. How do you know all that about me? God, this would be such a perfect moment for the twist where she's actually been stalking it. Yes. And she made up the whole coma thing. She didn't even get in the accident. She was fake. It's hard to explain. How have you been stalking me? No, I would not at all. OK, well, how do you know all this? I know all this about you because we were married. I know how that sounds. Believe me. I do. It was definitely a way to ease into this conversation a little bit more. OK, this sounds crazy. I was in a coma and I had the most vivid dreams. Just like, we were married. Don't you remember? No. That's you. You're a creep. Don't you see? Look, the color purple. It's your favorite color. But you lie. And you tell everybody that it's green and football. You don't like watching any sport other than football. Your mom. I never met her because in my dream she was already gone. But that's how I knew that you missed her. And that has to mean something, right? That it has to. Oh my god. This is insane. There's no coming back from this. Is it Helen? Helen, they're... I don't know. I guess it was just a dream you had. I feel like, what the fuck? I think you need to leave now. Yeah, I do. Right now, I will be shocked. No way he's like... I don't know. Maybe she was telling the truth. He's so underreacted to that information. What's wrong? I just realized I needed to be honest with myself. And I think I was just letting this keep going because it felt easier. Maybe the timings for the best. I got approval on a filled study to China. She's way cooler than him. She shouldn't have broken up with them. Usually with a movie like this, they make that character more of a villain, more of an obvious like, there's something. But like, she's cool. Yeah, she's cool. I'm saying characters, the one with all the red flags. I'll miss you. Thank you, Mom. You're so much cooler than me. Yeah, I didn't need this story. What will you be doing? Moving forward, should you go on a song mom's car? I don't need two cars. That's a great one. It's a great one. Funny blunt line at this point in the movie. What are you writing again? Did you decide? I'm actually working on two things. She's sitting on the sink. It's so unsanitary. That's where they wash the dogs. Look. Pine Creek farmhouse. I didn't know. And I miss it. She confessed in the worst way possible. I'm not on her side anymore. She fucked up. She fumbled. But now like, he's starting to have second thoughts. So I was just going through the receptionist desk here and I found some things Megan Murphy left behind. Oh, I can give her a call. Is there an address I could send that to? Let me look at what I have. Sure, I'll give you a address. We do that here. Yeah, we give away personal information all the time. Do you think she imagined it all? Yeah. She was right. Maybe she'd have been three hours long, so they could really explore why she knew. It was like the love story. And then there's like the how the fuck did she know about? Yeah. How was she correct in all these like predictions? And why is every fish in the same tank? I have a million questions. Maybe we can figure out. Well, we don't know about each other. We should have fireworks in the same tank. Fish all like explode. Do we help a little bit of up to what we know about, man? That's so crazy. That's so weird for him to just accept it. I love a good romance. I can't get behind him just falling in love with her. If I met someone and it like really hit it off for a couple of months and then I find out, they knew all this stuff about me. I would think they were a stalker. Yes. I would feel so weirded out. I would feel. I bet a stalker wrote this movie. Yeah. This is a stalker's fantasy. No, it's not stalking. I just had a dream where I learned all this stuff. You know almost everything about me. He likes it. I think he's just so used to having a girlfriend who's too cool for him and genuinely does not give a shit about his life. A year later, they have a five and six year old. Why would they hang individual photos of each other and not they don't have any together at this point? I like it. Nice job, Mrs. Clayborn. Also, he just called her Mrs. Clayborn. So they're married. It's been one year they're married already. And they don't have any wedding photos to hang up? No, no, they got married and they only have the one photo he took of her at their first photo shoot together. Stupid movie. This is perfect. And how can they afford this house? She works for him. She works. He makes a little bit of money and gives some of it to her and they pool that together to buy this beautiful house. Home art makes pretty good movies. But what they make that's really good is their wine. So be sure to check out Home art sandwich wine. Go to homeart.com. You're not going to find it there. But you'll find it eventually, Home art wines. That's it. It's... It's... It's... It's... It's...