Hey guy, welcome back to the middle of the ocean. Uh oh. I don't know how to swim. So I made a couple videos over the years about a YouTube channel called Brat TV, which thanks to Charlie XeX has gotten much harder to find lately. I'm glad you guys are enjoying your Brat Summer, but I'm trying to watch Addaway General. If you're not familiar with Brat TV, or you're like me and you forgot about it for three years until finding out they have their own channel on the Samsung TV Plus app. It's a bunch of overly serious 10-minute soap operas. Filmed like Darmann videos performed by a bunch of actors that only got hired because they have a lot of TikTok followers. Or at least they used to hire famous TikTokers. I can't tell if they stopped doing that, or if I'm just too old now to recognize anybody. But I think they're just hiring regular actors, which is good because the acting has gotten better, but bad because nobody's watching these shows anymore. The whole business model before was like, hey, what if Dixie Demilio pretended to be a doctor? And now it's just, hey, what if the Disney channel was worse? There's not much of a reason for people to stick around now, and it's unfortunate to see such a beloved institution fall from grace. But the only reason I'm making another video about this channel is because I recently discovered that for the past couple of years they've been doing what I would describe as, the funniest and most obtrusive product placement I have ever seen in my life. The first show I noticed is on with something that's honestly pretty hilarious in its own right? It's a series called Good Luck Have Fun, and it's about an esports team that has a big tournament coming up. But I guess because they didn't have the rights to any real games, they invented a new one for this. But I don't think the writers even came to a single conclusion about how this specific game is played, because most of the script is just a hodgepodge of vague gamer lingo that never sounds natural. I'm an Orc barbarian, man. I play mid. I was a mid too, except she's the slayer. Yeah, we only need one mid. Talk, Chip. I got a one shot. One shot. I got a world like pushing up. Give me heels. This lock is crap. Talk, Chip. Using my AoE for some TPS, they're smurfing, they're griefing. This kid's cranking 90s, like I didn't just pull aggro. I love when shows write about video games, and it's clear they just tried to shoehorn in as much terminology as they could. What's they do to you? They leveled up. This old episode of Law & Order is a work of art. In the beginning, Iced-T hates campers. Yeah, it campers. It's a campers. The office is crap. But in the end, he wins by camping. He camping back there? Bad form of defect. Talk about character growth. Also, any guesses as to who the villain in this episode is? Not like you didn't video game, not actually. Exactly the same. Yeah, it's Logan Paul. Don't talk, officer. I'm very sorry. I made a severe... Now for the most part, good luck, have fun. He's just your standard Brad show. A bunch of 21-year-olds pretending to be 15-year-olds, saying dialogue written by 40-year-olds. So there's a lot of silly drama, Jane likes Tyler, but she keeps embarrassing herself in front of him. Not like stalking you or anything. Oh, okay. But lucky for her, he doesn't mind. As long as she's not like a gamer or anything. No, I'm genuinely interested in going to know you. We used to be on the same esports team until... You do esports? I used to before I realized it was stupid to care about stuff. That wasn't real sports. Oh, okay, good. For a second, I thought you were a fucking dwee. I love when Tyler and his stepbrother Brandon have this very heated exchange. Hey. Who was your friend yesterday? Jane? She's pretty. Way too pretty to be hanging out with you. Yeah, I don't think you're her type, man. She likes guys who actually have a brain. Are they gonna kiss? You jealous or something? Oh, he looked down at his lips. He wants to, but he can't. So he has to go blow off steam with his basketball that has tape over the brand name. But that's kind of the underlying theme of the show. Nobody's living their truth. Jane doesn't want Tyler to know she plays video games and Eleanor doesn't want anyone to know that she's a lesbian. Two problems that are portrayed as equally difficult to deal with. I really like you, Jane. There's so much you don't know about me. Like what are you, like, an ax murderer? Worse. I'm a gamer. Worse than an ax murderer? Is there anything else I should know? Um. I'm actually really good at basketball. Wow. Also, I changed how I dress for you. Wow. Also, sometimes I'll tell people I'm on my way even though I haven't left my house yet. Wow. I already told you, Jane. I don't like layers. Fuck. I blew it. Real life has real consequences. Unlike those games you two play so much. Oh, now I get it. They really try to have it both ways in the show where playing totem snatchers is the most degenerate thing someone can do. But also, everybody in this town except for Tyler is good enough to play it professionally. So it kind of seems like he's the problem. It's also really funny to me that they try to use the classic bully trope with this girl, even though it's in the context of what is essentially League of Legends. Like every time they lose, Mia comes over and taunts them with random gamer words. Oh, what's wrong, noobs? Did I debuff your pug chance? So anyway, that's the show in a nutshell. Pretty normal stuff for about three and a half episodes. And then out of absolutely nowhere, this happens. I don't like it. I don't like it one bit. What do you mean, focus more on tournament? And everyone's too busy being in love. It's a mess I tell you. A mess. Freakin' out. Maybe you just need a snickers. And then they just kind of watch your chew on it until she calms down. Well, shit, that was incredibly jarring and unexpected. Back to the show, I guess. Go, go, go, go, go. Giding, giding. One shot, one shot, one shot. I got games. Nice, they're gaming again. I love that. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. I guess this scene itself wasn't enough, so they had to throw in some giant text on the screen too. Very subtle. It almost snuck right past me. I would love to know what's written into their contract, because every time they do one of these, they just stand there silently chewing for like 10 seconds. Do you think there was a more subtle version of this at some point? But Snickers came back and demanded it became more integral to the plot. You're not feeling like yourself. Maybe you've just seen a snickers. So at this point, I was pretty intrigued by the current state of Brat TV, and I wanted to see how often they were doing these ad breaks in the middle of scenes. So I started watching another show called Two Christmas's. And it's a really touching mini-series about parents going through a divorce and the effect that has on their children who have to adjust to this new life and all the complications that come with it. Sorry, I got distracted. Oh, yeah. It's a beautiful show about how even a day as joyful as Christmas can be filled with stress and frustration when you're going through such a big life. Are they going to do this the whole time? Yeah, no, it does seem like they're going to be doing that the whole time. Dude, I thought the Snickers show was bad. This entire series is built around how much gum this family choose. Heading out the door? Can't forget my gum. Having any conversation. Gotta pull out my gum. About to drink hot chocolate. Better put some gum in my mouth first. Because that's what I do before I eat and drink. It makes everything taste better and sometimes I accidentally swallow. I had no idea how common this extremely conspicuous product placement had become. It's in almost every series from the past few years. These poor actors have to just keep doing commercials in the middle of dramatic performances and it's so funny to me every time. I'm going to get through the day without starbursts. How are they so good? The human brain finds sweet fruits such as berries, pleasurable. There's one season of the chicken girls that's presented by the Little Mermaid movie and I was so excited for this one. It's such a serious show for some reason. Congratulations. Like unbelievably serious. You think we still have a chance at states? With Xander gone? I just know he's going to make a whole recovery. He has to. I'm also sure about that. What did they do to Xander? So because of the tone, I was fully expecting a scene like this. Hey, could I talk to you about something? Just one second, I'm almost done watching the trailer for the new Little Mermaid movie. It's a live action modern span on the animated Disney classic starring Hallie Bailey and Melissa McCarthy. I think I'm going to pre-order my tickets on the Fandango app so I can make sure I get good seats on opening night, May 8th. Now what was it you wanted to talk about? My grandma died. But that didn't happen. They just did a pre-roll ad like cowards. But I did skip around some of these episodes and I got to say I love this line. Unless you have an empty house line around, this is my best option for now. I think I might have something for you. My mom's a realtor. Oh my gosh, of course. I'm not exactly the kind of perspective buyer she's looking for. Who said you have to buy a house to live in it? The government? I don't know. It's just one of those rules. Hey, could you get out of my house, please? Nope. I learned on the chicken girls that I don't have to. Oh, okay. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm trying to watch The Little Mermaid. It's a live action modern span on the animated Disney class. I have to say though, as silly as all of this is, it's also kind of inspiring. I've done so many brand deals on this channel before and never have I integrated one so seamlessly. So I decided I want to borrow a page from Bratz Playbook for today's sponsor in Coc. See you later, Brailey. Good luck on that math test. Oh, hey, McKinseyton. What's wrong? I don't want to talk about it. Come on, you can tell me, is it about a girl kind of, it's these damn companies online. They're exploiting my personal information. What? Data brokers are collecting my personal information and profiting off it at the expense of my privacy. And I don't know what to do about it. Aren't you like 16? 28 actually. I was all back a few times. A few. Gosh, I just wish I could take back control of my data. But there simply isn't a way. Actually, I think there is. Have you heard of Ncogni? Ncogni. What now? Ncogni. It's a service that contacts data brokers on your behalf to request the removal of your personal information from the internet. Things like your phone number, your address, your social security number. That's information people can use to commit scams or even identity theft. And it can be extremely time consuming to contact hundreds of websites just asking them to remove your data. But Ncogni will do all of that for you. I can say from personal experience, the amount of spam phone calls I get has gone way down since I started working with them. And if you click the link in my video description in cogni.com slash good and use promo code good. You'll get 60% off an annual subscription. How does that sound, buddy? Good. Awesome. Thanks to Ncogni for sponsoring today's video. Hey, can everyone settle down please? All right, class has started. We're going to be watching a movie today. There's also a season of the chicken girls where they keep going to this cafe and ordering cinnamon toast crunch. As one does at a restaurant. What are you thinking, order? Yeah, sorry. I'm kind of crazy. How about cinnamon toast crunch? But I guess because just eating the cereal wasn't enough, they had to turn it into its own plot point where this girl can see the future in the cinnamon dust. When your cinnamon toast crunch and milk mix together, you stare really hard. You can see the future. Why don't you go outside, kid? They also did a game with cinnamon toast crunch called Sip or Spill, which historically is done with alcohol. Like you either have to answer this personal question or you got to take a shot. Only in this one, instead of drinking, he just had to have one bite of cereal. So there aren't exactly like crazy stakes here. But man, he is going to be so full after this, because he's got some hard-hitting question. What's your favorite part of cinnamon toast crunch? I get this question a lot. You do? I love the comments that are like so close to catching on to the fact that this entire thing is just an ad. It's less him and more cereal. Why is that? It kind of makes you wonder if they should even be allowed to do ads like these if their target audience is not old enough to comprehend that they're being advertised to. But that's not up to me to decide. I just want to laugh at how stupid this all is. And if you can believe it, everything I've shown you so far is still just the tip of the iceberg. And as much fun as I'm having so far, just the two of us, I thought it would be a little bit more fun to bring in my friend Danny to show you guys the rest. Hello, Danny. Thanks for coming to my channel. I'm excited to be here. Have you heard of the YouTube channel, Brat TV? This isn't like the YouTube channel that had those like TikTok stars. It is. Have you done a video about this channel before? Yeah, I'm doing another one. Okay, okay, but I have. But specifically, Brat has been putting these hilarious, conspicuous product placement ads within their shows. And so I came up with a little game for you where I'm going to show you the beginning of a scene. And you have to guess what the product is that they're about to advertise. Ooh, okay. I think it's going to be a lot of fun and good luck. I love it. He loves it. This is all the validation June needed for this video idea. Whoa, girl, that is amazing. Are those carography ideas? Yeah, I've always wanted to be on varsity and I think these would give me a like that next year. Okay, even focus in here. Splendid. All right, she said it's so loud. How can you focus? What's she pulling out that back? She maybe she's going to pull out noise-canceling headphones? That's a good guess. I play this with Amanda. She said the same exact thing. Really? Okay. Yeah, I guess great minds think a lot. Don't say that about my life. Think nothing like her. I said she had a great mind. Keep that to yourself, man. Are you jealous because you thought of something else and now you're worried that her mind and mine are more great than yours? Yeah, I thought she was going to pull out like a sword. How can you focus in here? Shame. Okay, is that your answer you can look at? It could also be some kind of caffeinated beverage. How can you focus? What does that energy drink? Celcius or something? Yeah, she's pulling out a celcius. Those are great guesses. I'll let you have both of those guesses because they're both wrong. Extra refreshers. It's my go-to hack when I eat true-way distractions around me and try and focus. Minty fresh and mighty focused. Minty fresh and mighty focused. It works that fast. Yeah, the soon as you put it in your mouth, all distractions are out. And you can only hear yourself chewing. She can't even see the other girl anymore. Her nose is bleeding. She's like, what the fuck happened? Well, that's the first one. Good job. You have, well, not good job. You'd zero points. Bad job. You don't need to say it so mean. It sounds like you're mad at yourself for saying good job and you're taking it out on me. That's most of what it is. I want you to lose, because we're competing against each other. I didn't know that. And I'm winning so far. You put this to guinea... Danny, if you want to win, make your own competition. This is my channel. I have a thousand points. OK, well, I've got a pretty good strategy for next time, then. I'm just going to ask you to say your guess first, and then I'm just going to go with your guess. All right. You've outsmarted me yet again. This next one, they're in a coffee shop. Oh, there's one thing I forgot. These are a fan favorite among the customers, so always make sure the display is full. All right, Danny, full of what? Coming out like coffee beans or something. That wouldn't really make a lot of sense. No, I don't think coffee is trying to advertise on the Brad Channel. And what was your guess again? My guess was the sword again. I guess sword every time. I don't get any points for the questions. I get them all wrong. I came into the game with a thousand points, and you only get one point for questions. Right. And what was your guess again? I think it's got to be some big name brand since the last one was extra, which is a very popular gun brand. I'm going to say Doritos. That's a very good guess. Let's see. Can't keep people from their talkies. I love these talkies intense nodger roll chips. They're not hot. They didn't say anything cheesy. That was a good guess. Doritos, very good guess. I'm going to give you a point for that. Oh, sick. I'm going to catch up to you in no time. How many questions are there? Did you say two or three thousand? There's exactly 2,000 and one questions. And if you keep eating half a point, we can tie. That's the way. Let me guess. You've got to get Bella birthday present. What am I going to do? Well, what's the one thing she loves the most? Me? Good try. But I'm talking about it. What's she talking about? So is this his girlfriend or something? Yeah. I think it's his girlfriend's birthday. He forgot to buy her a gift. So he goes to the empty classroom, where this girl's just like on her laptop. She has a gift basket prepared. What is in the gift basket? What would she really like? I'm going to guess degree brand deodorant. Weirdly a very good guess again. You're like getting so close. I'm talking about EOS. This vanilla cashmere body lotion is her favorite. Kind of like degree deodorant, but it's actually EOS vanilla cashmere body lotion, which the judges would have only accepted if you said in its entirety, even if you just said EOS lotion. I would have had to know the exact flavor. In fact, maybe even the skew number. Yeah. The judges would have accepted the skew. Well, they're looking up the answer from the skew number. Like, I have it written down as a skew. And then they're like body lotion. Yeah, I got it. Damn, still no points. It's over that half point. Have we looked in the basket and seen, is there any native deodorant in there? It could be underneath the EOS vanilla. If there's native deodorant in there, you don't get any fucking points for that. You said the Greek. Oh, fuck. Anyway, remember what I said. Oh, it feels so soft. Oh, it smells delicious. I think I like it because of the intense cheesy flavor. What do you mean, you focus on the tournament? And everyone's too busy being in love. It's a mess I tell you. A mess. All right, this is a two-part question. What product is he going to give her? And number two, what he will say when he gives her. Well, she's saying it's a mess. It's a mess. So I thought with that slide clever little look, he was going to pull out some bounty paper towels and say, oh, maybe we should clean it up. And then he starts wiping her. No. That's not my guess. That's not my guess. Oh, geez. My real guess is she needs to calm down. He's going to give her a Nintendo Switch with Minecraft on. OK. He's going to say, you need to unwind in the Minecraft world. You can place blocks and find gems. In Minecraft? For Nintendo Switch. Only for Nintendo Switch. Freaking out. Maybe you just need a Snickers. That one I should have seen that coming. Wait, how quickly did she unwrap that thing? How did she do that? It's like fully close. She just ripped the top right off. And what do you think that shows about? Is this all from the same show? No, these are all different shows. Oh, OK. That show is about high school. Right. It's a pretty general guess, but I can't say you're wrong. It's about a specific team that they're a part of. And is this, well, I get a correct point if I. I'll give you 500 points if you get it. Yeah. I think they're on the chest team. No. The esports team. Esports, really? Yeah, they play totem snatches. Well, hey, I got it right in the sense that there are a bunch of nerds. True that. OK, you get 300 points then. What do you keep looking at? Sunda's going to be so proud of it. She's following along down there. She says, you can't see her. You can't. Oh, shit. I have a desk in the way. He's down there, man. Trust me. So this one, I'm not going to show you the clip first. I'm just going to describe what the show is. Because they do a cut to a wide shot. That's so funny. I want you to see the whole scene in one go. It's a show about witches at a camp, I think. To be honest, I did not watch very much of this one. So just try to think of a product that would be integrated seamlessly in a show about magic. Maybe like candy, like pixie sticks. Pixie sticks. Kind of a magical food. That's a pretty good guess. I'm not going to let you guys again, because it's funny how close you're getting every time. You're so adjacent to the answer every time. She is a light witch, but her magic is somehow linked to the underworld. She's a beacon for dark forces, meaning meaning. They don't talk about the starbursts. They're just there. If you're a good little witch, you better eat your starbursts. Otherwise, you're an evil witch. And you're somehow linked to the underworld. Yeah, if you eat pixie sticks, you're an evil witch. And I've known that all my life. I would never touch a pixie sticks, because I'm not evil. I would never touch a pixie stick. Shit, I mean, I didn't say that. That chaos, demon. It was only the beginning. Starburst unexplained witches. OK, so to recap, so far, you have 301 points. You got two half points. And then I gave you 300 for something. I don't remember what it was. Because I guessed that they were involved in some kind of nerdy, extra critical. Yeah, because you called them dweebs, and I liked that. Because we're both jobs. So this one, I'm going to spoil. It's Starburst again. So the question is in. Starburst. I think I get a point for that. 10 points for that. But the question is not what brand it is. Starburst. The question is, how is she going to distribute the Starbursts? We're allowed to have snacks in here, right? Only if there's enough to go around. How will she give everybody Starbursts? Cut. There's only four Starbursts. But there's eight people in the class. Is this the show about witches? No. This is a show about a girl who built a robot that looks like a human boy. But the boy talks like a robot, and the whole show is about him trying to convince everyone he's a human. OK. And it's sponsored by Starbursts. Maybe she's going to use the robot boy. And he's going to have, does he have like, inspector gadget tight? Yeah, he snips it up. He tosses them around the room. Everybody catches it in the mouth. I think she's going to use science. Can I say that? Is that a vague enough answer? That's a perfectly vague answer. And to be honest, a correct answer. That's another 200 points. Airplane. Airplane. Airplane. Just being off-duty in these Starbursts for the whole school. She squeezed the Starburst, and there's Emma's juice in them? And all the kids line up with cups. That's during the juice. Oh, wow. There's even, like, a title card. So the thing with this one is the Starburst is, like, written into the plot. They're doing this thing where everybody eat starbursts and they like read their mind. That's like part of the show. They go into their minds and they're just thinking like, mm, juicy. So much juice. That is literally what they're drinking. Yeah, I think it's just like how do we say things about this product? How do we get our talking points out in the show? Well, everyone could just be thinking how freaking juicy and delicious they are. Wow, the starburst is so juicy. You gotta see, they did this one kid so dirty. Listen to what the teachers thought sound like and then compare that to what these kids thought sound like. It makes you think of Halloween time, fall, air, channet and ice dealing starbursts from the kids. How the wind stash when they went to bed. So pretty normal just like thinking about starbursts and this is what this dumb little boy is thinking. Candy's good. Starbursts are so good. Makes me happy. Yes, yes. Tell me feeling nice. Yes, yes, tell me feeling nice. I just felt a little fucked up because there's another girl they do it too and she's just like, I bet kissing trail would be juicy too. And he's just like, candy tasty. Yes, yes. Yeah, it seems like it's just a starburst show that happens to have a bee plot going on about a robot. And I'm gonna be honest, like it kind of is working. I might actually go buy starbursts after this. I want the juice. I want the flavor. I want something that tastes so good that I can't even think coherent thoughts anymore. Chewy juice and mighty focus. I also wanna show you the way this guy talks because he's a robot. I think I desire to kiss her back. Try, you can kiss Kimmy. Why did you give me lips then? What is the point in attempting human consciousness if I cannot experience love? She brought him to life and he's just like, yeah, but what is the point? I also like that he's trying to convince people he's a human. But then he's like, you should have made me with no lips. People would look at me and say that's a regular guy. So I think you got 200 points for that? Yeah, I think you said 200,000. Okay. Probably not a very tight race anymore because I still have just the thousand that I came in with. I haven't gotten anymore. Yeah, but, you know, if anyone's raised at this point, I'm sure you can still get points. Yeah. If you come up with a really cool idea or something, I would reward you points for that. Oh, thank you. That's very nice of you. And they come from your point? I had some points that I was hiding at the beginning that you didn't know about, so they'll come from my secrets today. Okay, and how many are there? I'm not gonna tell you. I don't really have a game for this last one. I kinda just wanna show you this whole episode in full. I guess I'll have you guess what the product is, but it's gonna be pretty obvious within like the first shot. So anytime you wanna guess, feel free to. You can save your guess for later for when you're more sure or if you wanna just jump the gun and guess right away. Mm-hmm. Legos. Mario. Yep, it's Lego Mario. Well, that is pretty impressive when you think about it because Mario was not shown on the screen, right? It was only Princess Peach. My dumbass would have said Lego Princess Peach. I'd lose a thousand points for that. I'd have zero points right now. So luckily I didn't say that. All right, everyone. 45 minutes left. 45 minutes left. So going with the theme of the other one, pretty much every Brad show is about a competitive team that's like hyper specific to one activity. This show is about a Lego Mario building competition. Looking good. Oh, for one more? What are you doing here? I'm having my girls out. Look who it is. Can you not see where in the middle of something right now? Can you see how fucking busy we are? Two coaches are better than one. Yeah, but is that even allowed? I mean, we're already pushing it with you on. That didn't make me wanna play Lego Mario. That made it seem really stressful to play with Lego Mario. We're here for moral support. Can't you see how fucking busy? This is the most important day of my life with Lego Mario. 25 minutes left. What are you doing? We don't have time to just stand around. 25 minutes left. How much did they start with? I think he said 45 minutes left, but they had pretty much built everything. 20 minutes later, it's exactly the same. I know, but I'm just trying to figure out if we should put Iggy's key before or after Bigger to Rolla Coaster. After? You get triple the coins. I'll stop talking and help you figure this out. Help me figure this out. I don't get it. Who the fuck is Mario? They mentioned at one point, this is the varsity team. I love the implication that there's another, like lesser division of Lego Mario building. Yeah, they can't even figure out how to get the Lego's to stick together. They can't stack them right? They're choking on them. Seven, six. All right, put it in there. So there was 45 minutes left. There was 25 minutes left. Now there's five seconds left. And there's this ominous echoing voice counting down. Blasting from the PA system. Times up. All teams, please. Put down your sets. Zero points, no Mario. They didn't even try. They didn't even fucking build anything. Is the point system just a thumbs up or a shake of the head from the judge? A little smile that's kind of in between. That's like five coins. Yeah, I guess you did a good job. I don't know about the decisions in my life that have led me to be judging a Lego Mario competition, but good job, I guess. I'm not a teacher here. I don't even have kids that go to the school. It just sort of got roped into this. Time for the runs. Each team member will have 60 seconds to run their level. And the team with the most coins wins. Do it. Kill that thing. Come on, Simone. You have 20 seconds. You can do this. 20 seconds to do what? I can't do it. I can't. I'm folding under the pressure of just like. What's going on? I don't know. I must be doing it wrong. Doing what wrong? Keep going. I could tell you one thing. They're doing a great job of making this look fun, man. Everyone's having fun in this scene. Screaming about the time limit. Yeah, I definitely understand the objective and what it is you do with the Lego Mario. He's got to get coins, which he does by killing everyone else and stomping on their corpse. I'll tell you one way you can make me care about this. Juicin at the end. I want to see how much juice is in that guy. I bet way less juice than Starbursts. Time. Oh, you're not even doing it fast, neither. Over 262. Please put down your set and away your school. Sorry, guys. I don't know what happened. It's OK. You were pretty good for a beginner. No, she wasn't. No, she was. She's been away better than that. Yeah, you could have done better. You don't even know how the game works. It's easy to watch from afar in judge. But you don't know the pressure they feel in that room. Stadium full of people watching them. Teach are walking around. It barely gives a shit. And I have a feeling that this means more to them than just the score. There's friendships at stake on the line. Yeah, no, there's none of that. This show is just about Lake Amaria. They're not like French. It's not about like French or anything. They don't even know each other. They don't know each other. It's just about a mansion peach. What was that? What was it? You were about to win, but then you didn't. I just felt like you guys deserved a more. I guess she threw the competition? Yeah, that sounds like something a loser would say to make themselves feel better about losing. I love also. Did you hear how excited he sounds to announce the winner? With the coins from each team, Tally, we have a winner. Team Toad. Oh, team Toad. What do you say to a friendly run? Just for fun? You're on it. Yeah, you thought that the competition being over would mean no more Lake Amario. But now they just do it for fun. And they're going to put them together? That's going to be double the coins. So maybe the lesson they're learning is that Lake Amario is not about how many coins you can get for that stinky old judge. It's just about having a... It's about how many coins you can get when you just put the two together. Yeah, it's not a show about friendship and growth through adversity. It's just about if we put all our legos together, we could get so many coins. What's this now? In loving memory. To shake with the goose. I guess we'll tally up the total now. And what was your secret stash? Oh, that's right. Let me check, I had it right here. So I have one billion secret points in the stash. And how many do I get? You have 10? 20. I'll give it to you. All right, thanks for having me. Yeah, thanks for having me. I've been meaning to watch this channel for a while. But I was worried because I didn't want to have to skip through all the story just to get to the good parts. So thank you for just taking the time to edit those out for me so I could only see the cool good parts. Gotcha. Yeah, I thought you were talking about my channel. And I thought you were saying, finally, I can skip to the good parts, which is the parts you're in. Yeah, I do a lot of collabs with this other YouTuber that I watched, Danny. So I was just waiting for you to do that. And now it's really cool seeing him like right there. You must be star-struck getting to see your favorite YouTuber, Danny Gizalos. That's one word for it. You got a boner. Absolutely another word for it.