I know I am too old to be getting this worked up over a Netflix remake of a cartoon that came out when I was 11, but this is not just any cartoon. It's not like they're rebooting Jimmy Neutron and I'm pissed off about it. Avatar is a nearly perfect series. It's when I enjoyed a lot when I saw it as a kid, but rediscovering it as an adult actually blew my mind. It's a show that moved me to tears multiple times. It's something that the creators clearly put so much thought and care into getting every detail right from the world building to the music. Now for a long time, I thought it would be impossible to translate this world into live action, partly because of how intricate and beautiful the animation is, and partly because the last time they tried to do it, it was a fucking disaster. I've seen way too many people say in regards to the Netflix adaptation, hey, at least it's better than the movie. Yeah, I would hope it's better than one of the worst films ever made. You don't get points for that. Because of how goofy and awkward this movie looked, I assumed it just couldn't be done. That this world was simply unadaptable to live action, and in a lot of ways, Netflix proved me wrong. This show looks probably as good as a live action Avatar could. I mean, nothing will ever truly compare to vibrant and fluid, and a lot more than just the film, but the VFX team that worked on this did a really good job of making something that very easily could have looked dumb as shit. Look pretty realistic. Except for the air bending, I don't know what happened there. Yeah, a lot of the scenes are directed a little jarringly, and it's way too dark sometimes. But with what they were tasked with bringing to life here, I think they deserve a lot of credit. But it's funny to me that Netflix nailed the part that I thought couldn't be done well and messed up all of the stuff that should have been a slam dunk. Let's start with the pilot, because I started writing this video 10 minutes into the first episode. The pilot condenses the first three episodes of the animated series into one premiere, which on paper works really well. The end of episode three really is where the prologue ends. We've established the world, we've introduced the characters, and a little bit of their backstories, and they're literally flying away from their past as they venture forth onto their journey. And while the very beginning of the show doesn't quite reach the heights that it eventually will. I think this is all paced really well, and does a good job of doling out enough information to explain what's going on while still having the restraint to hold on to some things that can be revealed when the time is right. We open up two of the three main characters, Sakin Katara. We learn that there's siblings who live in the southern water tribe, Katara is a water bender, Sakin is nine. He belittles her ability, they bicker for a bit, it escalates, and in Katara water been so hard that a 12-year-old bald kid falls out of an iceberg. Wait, that's not just any bald kid. That's the Avatar. No one's seen him in 100 years. What the hell? No time to stop and explain everything, though, because they have inadvertently alerted a nearby fire nation ship of their presence. This is Prince Zuko and his uncle Iroh. They've been banished from their home and sent on a now three-year quest to find the Avatar, a quest that may just be about to end. Some chaos ensues, a fight breaks out, but ultimately with the help of his new friends, Ang is able to escape Zuko and the three of them fly into the sunset. Now that brings us to episode three, and there is still a crucial piece of information that the showrunners have not yet revealed to Ang because they're waiting until the right moment. The gang heads to the air temple that Ang grew up in, a place where Sakin Katara know is probably filled with dead airbenders, but they don't have the heart to break it to him. He's so cheerful and excited to just show them where he used to play with his friends. How do we tell this kid that everyone he knew and loved was murdered by the fire nation? Instead, they try to cheer him up and keep him distracted. We see a flashback of Ang's former life. He's talking to his friend and mentor Giazzo. Someone who we can tell he clearly cared a lot about. Ang talks about how overwhelmed he is at the thought of being the Avatar and Giazzo assures him that everything will be alright. We cut back, they keep exploring for a bit, they find Momo, a little pet to go with their big pet. Things are going great until... Oh shit. This is a really important scene for the beginning of a Nickelodeon show that up until this point has been pretty lighthearted. Being your main character, who's just a kid, find out about the death of his entire people and then freak out and have to be calmed down by his friends. It's a really powerful moment that can only happen because the writers held on to this reveal until the time was right to reveal. So now let's talk about how Netflix handled the pilot. Instead of starting the show on our main characters, we open on an epic chase. This is streaming baby, we gotta put a fight scene within the first 10 seconds, and turn it off and go watch Love Is Blind. If you don't brutally murder someone right now, I'm taking my ass to free me. But you know what, I'm fine with this cold open. I understand you're just trying to grab people's attention and a quick little action sequence that shows how ruthless the Fire Nation can be, is not the worst way to do it. But it should have ended here. You say this line. This isn't about the airbenders. This is about one who lives among them. But you have a charge, you have to be revealed. Which is why we have to kill them all. And then we cut to present day to the three main characters similar to how the cartoon did. I actually think that would have been a really effective opening because if you've never seen the show and you just watched the Fire Lord say, we gotta kill all the airbenders. And then you cut 100 years into the future and you see an airbender that survived, you'd probably be like, how did that happen? I'm gonna stick around to find out. Instead, we come back from the title sequence and we're still in the past on the day of the aforementioned invasion. Yes, we're just gonna do the whole show chronologically, lest anyone be confused. We meet Ang and Yatsu and see them stand and talk for a while. And then we get to watch some people sit and talk for a while. And we cut back to Ang and Yatsu. And they do more standing and more talking and then Ang flies away and a whole bunch of murder happens. Oh my God, so much murder. I'm talking several uninterrupted minutes of murder because remember, this is a show for grown-up. Cartoons are for babies. We got a bunch of dead bodies in this one. What's crazy to me about this entire sequence is that while they're so insistent on showing something that I honestly think had more emotional impact to just see the aftermath of, they make no attempt to show us any aspects of Ang's personality. I mean, don't get me wrong. The writers take the time to explain Ang's personality to us. He and Yatsu tell us all about him. I know who I am. I like to play airball and eat banana cakes and goof off with my friends. That's who I am. I feel bad for this kid because he seems like a very good actor, but the writers keep giving him lines that make it sound like he's about to burst into song. Mark Stone even trusts me to feed the baby bison and I'm supposed to save the world. Why can't I just be a kid? But this isn't even the worst example of tell-don't-show that they do in this episode. Remember I told you about how Ang finds out that all the airbenders are dead, how he stumbles upon the corpse of his former best friend, surrounded by all of the firebenders it took to take him down. Here's how they do it in this show. Most of them had just arrived for the great comet festival. The great comet festival. The last time that the great comet was seen in the sky was one hundred years ago. Someone just tells him about it. Everyone in the village knows this story, but you don't. Just as you don't know that airbenders haven't been seen in generation. And that the Southern Air Temple was the first to fall because you've been trapped in that ice this whole time. Grand Grand reads out loud the entire opening theme for like two straight minutes while he has to just sit there and give reaction faces before running out of the room crying. And he said for like ten seconds and then everything is fine. No time to mope, buddy. You gotta do another walk-in talk. This is infuriatingly bad writing. You took one of Ang's most impactful moments from the beginning of the show and turned it into someone else's monologue. It's so weird to me when shows are clearly in a rush to establish as much information as possible. I guess because they think people will get confused and turn it off if they don't have their hand held through every interaction. But it feels counterintuitive. I think what gets people to continue watching something is Mr. You don't need to answer every question I have within seconds of me having it. You can reveal information in small doses and slowly add to it piece by piece. That's what's gonna compel me to keep watching something. Not paragraphs of expository dialogue whenever you feel like you've got some lower blanks to fill. It's also weird to me that they still try to recreate the air temple moment in this episode even though it's not new information for Ang. He goes and sees dead Giazzo, who was evidently much easier to kill this time around. And still goes bananas and still has to be calmed down. But it doesn't really make sense because he already knows about this. My friends, they're all gone. It actually feels like kind of an overreaction considering he barely gave a shit about it earlier. Also in the original, Katara is the one to calm Ang down while he's in this state. She tells him that she knows what it's like to lose someone you love but the world needs him and they're here to help no matter what. A great moment for the three of them because it gives closure to Ang's past while bridging the gap into this present journey they're about to go on. In this version, Katara just watches while we see a bunch of flashbacks from earlier in the episode in case you were looking at your phone during that part. You are my friend. I really don't understand the obsession with Giazzo in this version. It's an important character but more so as a memory for Ang like a symbol of what he lost. He's not that relevant to the present day journey they're about to go on. What matters the most is their relationship. Their friendship is the foundation that this entire series is built on. So I think you're doing a huge disservice to that by taking interactions away from Katara and Saka so you can give them to a guy who died a hundred years ago. They do this multiple times in the show. They keep bringing Giazzo back instead of giving that valuable screen time to the more important character. They even do this in the opening title scroll in the pilot episode. In the original Katara is the one who does this voiceover which kind of establishes the show as being from her point of view and the very iconic lines she says at the end. I believe Ang can save the world. Actually tell us something about her. They tell us that she's optimistic and believes in her friends no matter what. So they actually manage to add characterization into a sequence that is at its core exposition. It's a very efficient use of dialogue. In the remake they take this away from Katara so they can again give it to a character who died a hundred years ago. And that's not even mentioning the fact that everything that's said in this version of the title sequence gets repeated multiple times throughout the episode. It's a very inefficient use of dialogue. The Avatar. The one person with the ability to master all four elements. The Avatar. The next master of all four elements. Only the Avatar. The one person who can master all four elements. Only the Avatar. Master of all four elements. But when the world needed him most, he vanished. When the world needed the Avatar the most he vanished. Episode 1 shouldn't feel as rushed at the end as it does. It's roughly the same runtime as the three episodes it's adapting. So it's not that they didn't have the time to tell the story. It's that they misused the time they had. They added all this stuff that probably would have been better if it was just kept a mystery. They waste so much time repeating the same information just from different sources. And they replace interesting character development moments with vague mumbo jumbo. Bending is about energy and balance. By feeling the energy around you and find balance. By finding balance you can feel the energy. Ang! What the fuck are you talking about? Remember, energy is balance, which is energy, which is balance. Whoa, thanks, Ang! I've waterbending that! And I'm internet-bending! Ooh! Sorry about that. Uh, this portion of the video is sponsored by Opera, the faster, safer, and smarter way to browse the web. If you've ever wondered why it takes me so long to make videos, it's because most of my job is writing. And while I'm writing, I like to have 97 different tabs open for every thought that pops into my head. A really cool thing I can do on Opera is sort my tabs into islands. So when I want to shift gears away from my 25-minute Amazon journey and back into working, I can just click one button, hide all of that, and now I'm not thinking about it anymore. It's a super helpful tool for visually organizing my time online. Opera has a free ad blocker built into the browser that you can toggle on and off with one click, which is great for those websites that yell at you when you have one and you need to quickly pretend that you don't. There's a built-in music player on the sidebar that works with all the big streaming services like Spotify and Apple Music. And it's great for when I'm working on my laptop and don't have a second monitor. I don't need to open a separate window just to change a song. You can also use a sidebar to go and message your apps or scroll through social media. I think it's really cool that when I'm watching a YouTube video, it'll automatically move it to the corner of the screen when I open up a new tab. If I'm not multitasking at all times, then what is even the point of having internet access? Upgrade the way you browse the web, download Opera for free using my link in the description. Thank you to Opera for sponsoring today's video. Now before I continue just getting mad about every single aspect of this show, I do want to answer a more general question of like, what should we expect out of an adaptation? Because it may sound like I'm trying to say that this should have been a one-to-one recreation of the original show when that is not the case. You can and should be able to change things. Why even bother spending all this money to make something that looks worse if it's going to be exactly the same? But those changes need to enhance the story. They can't be at odds with the spirit of the show or fundamentally change a character. So that brings me an episode two. In the months leading up to the show's release, I kept seeing aggregated quotes about it from cast members, from the creators. And every time I did, it made me a little bit less optimistic about what we were going to get. One of those quotes was how the creators of the show very nobly got rid of the sexism that Saka had a little bit of at the beginning of the cartoon. Because that was 2005 and we're a lot smarter now. Obviously, I don't need to tell you that there are tons of movies and TV shows from 20 years ago that absolutely have not aged well. But I think you're missing the point if you try to lump this show in with those. Saka is an overconfident but misguided teenage boy who grew up isolated from the rest of the world, where he has been tasked with being the sole leader and protector of his entire village. For the result, he begins the show with a pretty dated sense of what men and women should be expected to do. He's constantly making belittling remarks to his sister, he meets the warriors on Kyoshi Island and is relieved to see that they're just girls. Here's the thing though, the show is not glorifying his behavior. In fact, they're very much doing the opposite. Because you know what happens right after he says these things? He is immediately proven wrong. He underestimates Suki and the rest of the Kyoshi warriors and they kick his ass. He's so embarrassed by this that he comes back with his tail between his legs and apologizes and begs to learn from them. It is meant to be a humiliating and humbling experience for him, one that also props up the women around him. It's vindicating for Katara, who's had to deal with his bullshit her whole life, and it establishes Suki as a badass. It's not unchecked, it's not something that the showrunners are celebrating, his misogyny is immediately met with repercussions. Are we really at a point where we can't even show a character on TV doing something morally disagreeable? Can audiences truly not understand the difference between a real life human being expressing a shitty belief and that belief being portrayed in a piece of fiction? Look, I'm not here to die on the hill, that you gotta keep the misogyny in the show man, it was so funny. There's other ways for the writers to show Saka having a flaw that Suki can use to get a leg up on him. So what do they do instead? She walks in on him, taking a bath, and just fucking stands there, staring at him with Google-ia, and then in their training scene together they have to stop every 10 seconds because of all the sexual tension. Avoided, we've avoided a lot of things by living the way we do. Jesus Christ. Do you see the point that I'm trying to make here? Instead of Suki being this cool and confident intellectual superior to Saka who always has the upper hand on him and is always able to shut him down whenever he tries to pull some shit, they decided to just make her so horny she can't function. I gotta say it's a little ironic that in an attempt to remove sexism from the show, they actually took a more sexist approach to designing her character. They stripped away everything that made her who she was, made her absolutely obsess over Saka who doesn't do anything to earn it, and then they have the nerve to act morally superior to the original writers. Also does anyone in this village respect privacy? Shaking my damn head. On the topic of absolutely destroying strong female characters, let's talk about Katara. Her entire arc in the show is just, man, I'm not so good at bending. And then Ang is like, yeah you are, and she's like, you're right, I'm actually the best. She has not given any personality whatsoever. Her entire existence is tied to her water bending ability, which is not what made her such a great character in the cartoon. Instead of showing how fiery and passionate Katara can be and how her optimism sometimes backfires because the world they're living in is so beaten down. And how she can be a great leader and friend to everyone around her. Not just because she's strong, but because she's empathetic and brings out the best in people. They just made her real good at fighting, and that's it. You are a waterbender that is who you have always been and always will be. And she doesn't even need any help because she's so talented. Always has been, in fact. I wasn't even really trying. It's just not an interesting choice when compared to how the original show handled her growth. They had this great episode early on where Katara gets jealous of Ang because he's the avatar and everything just comes so easily to him. But what this showed about her character is that she desperately wants to be good at waterbending. We'll go to great lengths to be able to do it and has to work twice as hard as Ang. So when we get to the end of the season and she does surpass him in skill, we know it's because she worked really hard to get there. And that is more admirable than her just being handed this power. I mean, literally handed. Grand-grand-grand-grand- just gives her this scroll that in the original show, she went to great lengths to steal. For Katara, her main motivation in season one is to get to the Northern water tribe so she can find someone to teach her waterbending. Something she's always wanted but has never had access to because she's always been the only waterbender in her tribe. And then they finally get to the North Pole and I guess she doesn't actually need that because instead of asking Pakku to train them, she begs him to let her fight. First of all, why are you asking permission? He's not going to stop you. Just go do it. Where's he going to follow you around and tie your hands behind your back because you're trying to fight the fire? And it just go fucking do it. But the point they're trying to make is that she's so powerful, she doesn't even need someone to teach her. Okay, well then why didn't she just go defeat the fire lord herself? She has this line at one point where she's like, we need you, Ang, I need you. No you don't. You don't seem to really need anyone. The fact that everything comes so easily to her makes it so there's no payoff at the end. It makes this line. You found a master having you. You're looking at her. Kind of dumb actually. All you did was read one scroll that your grandma gave you and now you're a waterbending master. What a journey huh? This story will be told for generations. They gave her zero depth in the show and it's really frustrating. You may notice while watching this show that Netflix seems to have a fear of giving any of the main characters an unlikeable trait. God forbid any of these children ever make a mistake or have a redemption arc. They need to start the show already perfect. That is such a boring way to write your characters. It's also a huge disservice to your actors by giving them nothing to work with. One of the foremost characteristics of Ang early on in the show is that he's still just a kid. He's a 12 year old boy who has been given this overwhelming responsibility of saving the world. It's something that understandably scares the shit out of him so much so that he runs away. That's how he ends up in the iceberg for 100 years. It's the inciting incident of the entire show that guilt follows him and it's a really important part of his growth. But Netflix seemed to be so concerned with having their main character make an incorrect decision that they changed the reason for him flying out into the middle of a storm. To him just going for a stroll. You're right. Just needs to go abruptly and always make more sense. I gotta go up where things make more sense. The ground ain't so good for thinking. Don't worry guys, it was just an accident. He wasn't avoiding responsibility because he's a child who wasn't ready for it yet. He was just getting some fresh air. In the middle of a lightning storm. Okay great. So instead of him showing signs of immaturity, he's actually just an idiot. Another thing about Ang still being a kid is that he's not always focused on the task at hand. That's something he has to grow into. This is his very first line in the original show. Will you go penguins selling with me? He's constantly getting distracted and wanting to go on side quests because he's a little boy. Of course it's not like that the whole show, but it gives him a starting point so by the end you can see how much he's mature. Netflix Ang don't got a whimsical bone in his body. He is extremely serious and solely focused on getting from point A to point B. He's not written like a child. He's already the season three version of Ang. Netflix, if you want your characters to be able to grow, they need to have a place to grow from. Yeah, he takes the time to deliver his little sililiquiz about how much he yearns to goof. But those are just words. We never actually see him do those things. He also makes it so his whole interaction with Boomi makes no sense. Boomi's like, there's no time for fun hang. You've got to go save the world. It's like, yeah, he knows that. He's already very good at not having any fun. This is one of the worst written arcs in the entire show because everything they say contradicts what they're doing. Boomi tells him to quit playing games and go do your job as the avatar. Meanwhile, he's the one holding him hostage, giving him games to play. Ang wants to leave the entire time. Just let him go and he'll do the things you're asking him to. Ang's in maturity also lends really well to the narrative shift that happens in the first season. Because for a long time, he's like, yeah, yeah, I got to save the world eventually. But first let's go here and fuck around here for a little bit. And then we get to episode eight and the former avatar is like, no dude, you actually have to defeat the fire lord by the end of the summer. Because this comment is going to come. And if you don't do it before that, he's going to be invincible. Restoring the elements takes years of discipline and practice. But if the world is to survive, you must do it by summer's end. It's this great shift in momentum that adds even more stakes to the equation. It puts a timer on everything. They kind of do that in this one. They give them a vision of the North Pole being attacked. But that doesn't do anything to address the overarching goal of having to learn and master all three of the elements. Something that a small note here, he doesn't do any of the entire season. They set that up as one of the main goals in the original for a season. And we see a bunch of examples of ang learning water bending and before having it pay off in the finale. Ang doesn't water bend once in this version. He's so behind it's actually stressing me out. It would have been wise to have focused on your training during your journey. I swear to God, if they start season two and Ang is already very good at water bending, implying that there was a bunch of progress that happened to off screen, I'm going to lose my mind. And don't try to tell me that I already have. This is me on a good day. As you watch more of the show, it makes a lot of the additions more frustrating because everything has a cost. If you have to cut out character development moments, so you have the space to show a bunch of airbenders getting set on fire, you might want to take a step back and reconsider your priorities. It starts to become a little obvious why the creators of the original show left this project almost for you. According to them, they were promised that they would be given the job of guiding the show in the right direction and they were lied to. Dude, I'm so tired of these dumb ass executives who make $2 million every second getting involved in things that they have no knowledge of. Why even higher the original creators of the show if you're just going to ignore their input and act like you know their story better than they do? Why the concern over making characters unlikable when that was never a problem to begin with? Everybody loved Katara and Saka and Ang even with their imperfections. Imperfections are what make characters relatable. And it's like this was all supposed to be the problem with network TV. Streaming was supposed to be the solution to this. We're not going to micromanage and enforce a bunch of arbitrary rules. We're just going to trust the showrunners to do the job that we hired them to do. Yet somehow over the course of the past decade, we've just kind of reinvented cable. So, good job everyone. I honestly wouldn't be surprised to learn that most of the issues with this version of Avatar are the result of meddling from people who should have just stayed the hell away. Because there is potential here. Underneath all of the baffling decisions are the bones of what could have and could still be a much better series. For starters, I think they did a fantastic job with the casting. I imagine it's way harder to cast for live action than animated because not only do they have to have the perfect voice, but they also need to look the part and be the right age. And in this case, be able to do martial art. The fact that they're able to check so many boxes with these kids is impressive. I just hope that going forward, they get better material to work with. The only character they consistently write well for is Zuko. This guy's got it. He totally nails the intimidating on the outside, but a little sensitive on the inside. And between him, Iro, Zhao, Lieutenant Chi, I think almost all of the Fire Nation scenes were more cohesive and well-written than anything that the rest of the cast was forced to do. Going back to my point that you can and should be able to make changes in an adaptation if they make sense, I thought a couple of the additions they made to Zuko's character worked perfectly. One, there's the reveal that the crew Zuko protected from being sacrificed in the meeting that led to his banishment. He's actually the same crew that he's been commanding for the past three years since then, so I thought that was a really cool way of tying everything together. It makes so much sense that I was actually surprised when I went back and rewatch season one of the animated series and realized they didn't do that original. Also, like the scenes they added with him and Iro, like the flashback to Iro's son's funeral where we see Zuko give him his condolences, as well as a gift to remember his son by. They have another moment like that at the end of this episode where Zuko is about to set off on his never ending quest upon the Avatar. And Iro's like, hey, mind if I come along and Zuko's pretty resistant to the idea, but then Iro says this. Everything I need is on this boat. It's a very sweet moment, especially with a little nod they do to leaves from the vine, a famously sad episode from season two. But I do think it's worth pointing out that this only works for the people who have already seen the entire animated series. This only has the emotional weight that it does if you're going into this show with 30 hours of contact. Keep in mind, this is episode four of the live action. If this is your first exposure to these characters, this moment is not going to have nearly the same significance to you. It's nice, but it feels a little premature. Netflix Avatar has an instant gratification problem where they don't want to set anything up that can be paid off later. They just want that payoff now. And I get that some of that was probably due to the uncertainty over whether they would even get a season two and three. So they were trying to be as impactful as they can with this first season, but it's only going to make their job harder in the future. Like, where do you even go with some of these characters? There was one big change with Zuko that feels emblematic of the entire philosophy they approach this show with. There's an episode in season one of the cartoon called The Storm where we see these juxtaposed flashbacks of Ang and Zuko's past, and we learn about the moments that sent them on the trajectories they're now on. For Ang, it's running away from home, and for Zuko, it's getting banished from home. He speaks out a turn in a war meeting and disrespects everyone in the room by saying they should come up with a better plan. Ozai does not appreciate this, and he tells Zuko that he's going to have to do an Agni Kai aka a firebending duel. But when Zuko shows up, he is shocked to find out that it's not the general he's supposed to fight, it's his own dad. Zuko begs not to have to fight him. In fact, he outright refuses, but this only makes Ozai more angry. Zuko has now disrespected him twice, so he burns his face and tells him he cannot come back home until he finds the avatar. The Netflix version plays out pretty similarly, but with one major difference. This time, Zuko fights back. Because why would we keep one of the most important moments of the show when we'd be missing out on an awesome fight scene? Look at all the fire! Zuko refusing to fight his dad was the best way to show us who he is. How unlike his father, he's not willing to hurt the people he loves. Netflix kind of respected that idea. I mean, Zuko does refuse to fight for a few seconds, and he does eventually get burned by his uncaring father. The problem is you can't justify Zuko getting banished forever because he lost a fight to the world's most powerful firebender that wouldn't make any sense. So they had to add in another wrinkle to make sense of their first wrinkle, which is that Zuko actually could have won he just chose not to. And that's where this scene completely loses me. Ozai is supposed to be the ultimate threat. The world's most feared villain looming over every second of Ang's journey. And you're telling me some random 13 year old kid could beat him in a fight? What are we doing here? I also just think it's better for Zuko's arc if he doesn't stand up to his dad yet, because then it will mean way more when he eventually does. What this decision showed to me is that the creators of Knock-Off Avatar will always choose Flash over substance. If we have to fundamentally change two important characters so we can get one extra minute of pyrotechnics, you bet we're going to be doing that. Because this is a show for grownups. Tell me again why the show made for grownups, Netflix's Game of Thrones had to dumb down its writing. Every line of dialogue is so on the nose. This was my whole and now it's gone. They always choose the simplest way to convey a point. The one thing I do know is I'm the Avatar and this is just the beginning. Oh I get it because he's the Avatar and this is the end of episode one. Compare these two lines that serve the same function and tell me which of these shows is made for babies. We'll learn respect and suffering will be your teacher. Compassion is a sign of weakness. Compassion is a sign of weakness. Compassion. It was weakness. The script feels like a first draft filled with a bunch of placeholders that just ended up holding that place forever. I think the moment that made me realize oh they truly don't give a shit about what they're doing here is when they reused the same twist three times. So just like in the original, Zuko objects to the Fire Nation's plan to attack one place as a diversion so they can actually attack somewhere else. But then in the first episode they added in this thing where the Fire Nation tricks the Earth Kingdom into thinking they're going to attack one place as a diversion so they could actually attack somewhere else. And then in the finale it's revealed that the whole fight that just took place was get this a diversion so they could actually attack somewhere else. How is the rest of the world not catching on by now? They only have one strategy. The entire world will turn their attention to the Earth benders. A masterful ruse your highness. With the enemy's firepower focused on that diversion we can launch pinning attacks here. A masterful ruse your highness. Why attack the noise at all? Distraction. The North was never the true target. A masterful ruse your highness. Not only is that such lazy writing but the last one doesn't even make sense. They attacked the Northern water tribe to distract them from Omaschew but both of those Sieges happened over the course of one day. Even if they somehow knew it was happening because they got like an email about it they still couldn't have gotten there in time to help. And it's not like the Earth Kingdom was distracted from Omaschew because they were busy helping the water benders. They weren't there. These two things have nothing to do with each other. This wasn't a diversion. You just did two attacks at the same time and one of them worked and one of them didn't. Also did they not say an episode four that they knew Omaschew was going to be attacked? Fire Nation forces are on the move. They'll be here by dawn. Why write in that they knew it was going to happen if you're going to make them so unprepared for it? Do you run your attack? We will be. But we will be ready. Is anyone in the writing room keeping track of things that they've said? I know some people are going to watch this video and accuse me of just being a hater but like I didn't want to not like this show. Believe it or not it's way more fun for me to like stuff than it is to not like stuff. I will root for success for this show and everyone involved. I got genuinely emotional watching the cast react to the news that they got picked up for two more seasons and I didn't even like the first one. I'm just happy for them that they get to keep working on this. I think there's a lot of room to grow and I'm happy that they're being given the opportunity to try and do that. I hope that the Netflix corporate overlords who pushed for all the changes that people are complaining about can listen to the criticism and realize that they're only making things worse by intervening. I don't think they're going to do that but I will choose to be blindly optimistic until proven otherwise. At the end of the day I would rather this show exist than not at all. It didn't cost me a hundred million dollars to make. All I had to do was watch. Avatar is one of my favorite shows of all time and even if the best thing about this adaptation is that it's convinced people to go back and discover the original series for the first time. I'll take and if you are one of those people welcome. Sorry I spoiled the first 20 episodes but a lot more stuff happens after that. Season 2 is where everything goes up another level. They haven't even introduced tof yet. They replace Admiral Zhao with a Zoola and that's a huge upgrade. It gets so fucking good man. If you haven't seen it yet just go watch it. What are you waiting for for this video to end? It already did.