Hey majors, so I'd like to start off with a little biology lesson. When a species finds itself living on an island, it can start to evolve in strange ways based on the different pressures applied by the new environment. This is called island syndrome, and while it can manifest in a lot of ways, the biggest driving force is often a lack of predators. For example, the dodo lost its ability to fly, since there was nothing to flee from. The st. Killed a field mouse got twice as big since it no longer had to hide. And with no one around to bully them, the Sardinians started putting maggots in their cheese. Meat, casu, marzu, literal translation, rotten cheese. It's made by taking a perfectly good wheel of pecorino and letting a special type of fly lay eggs in it. The fly babies then work to partially digest the cheese, rendering it goopy and wet, and maybe quite tasty, and worm-filled. Now cheese is a concept is already quite suspect. It's clotted milk that you fill with bacteria and mold and let's sit for a while, but cheese is safe and delicious. Cheese is my friend. I trust cheese, so my guard would be down around casu marzu. I've learned to look past a cheese's childhood. Strange up rings are what give them their character, but it turns out those maggots are still alive. And if you don't chew well enough, they can cause enteric myiasis, which is a fancy term for fly larvae living in your intestines. Symptoms are similar to food poisoning, except with the added psychic pain of knowing that, again, your balls are full of squiggly new friends. It's for this reason that casu marzu was banned in the EU and elsewhere. A black market still exists, which is wild, and it's not a small one. In 2019, the illicit casu marzu trade was estimated to be worth 2-3 million euros annually. Personally, I would just do a prohibition style, like definitely don't put these fly eggs on this sumptuous wheel of pecorino, but if you do, you absolutely shouldn't keep it warm and damp for a week, but although it's traditional to leave the larvae alive when you eat your maggin cheese, some consumers still prefer them dead, shockingly. In that case, one puts the cheese in a sealed bag, and when the maggots run out of oxygen, they ride around and fling themselves all over the place. This is heard as a distinct pitter patter against the walls of the bag, and when the sound stops, the contents are ready to eat, like popcorn. Shark fin soup is one most of us have heard about already, mostly in reference to its effect on shark populations and the wastefulness that goes into making it. Until recently, though, I never looked into the nature of the dish itself. I figured, right, the fins are just the only part of the shark worth eating. It's probably not much different from like swordfish. Apparently, though, I had it backwards. Shark fins aren't even meat. They're made almost entirely of cartilage and collagen. They are the last part we should be eating. That's why it's only made into soup, because without being soaked in broth, it has zero flavor or nutritional value on its own. Their only redeeming quality is their unique mouth feel due to how stringly the collagen grows, and structures called serratotricia. The texture has been described as somewhere between chewy and crunchy, which I find describes most things, actually. Other adjectives present on Wikipedia include snappy, gelatinous, and sinewy. The exact sensation of eating this substance remains a mystery to me, and the unintended side effect of all this research is that I now really want to try it. Like it's a big trade. I've gotta be the one that's wrong. There is imitation shark fin soup available, but I've already decided that it's not nearly as good, so I've come up with a compromise to this controversy. Everyone on Earth gets just one bite. Say, there's 10 bites to a fin, four fins to a shark, 200 million sharks die, sure, a necessary casualty, but then we can end the practice forever. All done. You can finally rest, Mr. Ming. Come here, baby. Aww. Aki. What? Aki. Where? Aki. The Aki is a fruit originally from West Africa, which is most commonly associated with Jamaican cuisine, where it appears in such dishes as Aki and Saltfish. These alien kidneys here are called the aeroles, and they're the only part of the fruit that's actually eaten. The flavor is on the savoury side, being described as kind of nutty or bean-like. What makes the Aki controversial, though, is the effects you can cause when prepared improperly. If the aeroles are allowed to completely ripen, they're harmless, but if you eat them too early, or don't thoroughly clean off all the non-airll stuff, they can cause Jamaican vomiting sickness. This disease doesn't sound real, it sounds like it belongs next to Eastern sweats and tangyery and bone grindings, but that's actually an official term, and as for symptoms, it does what it says on the tin. Plus maybe death. Many based products aren't outright illegal in the United States, they are very tightly regulated, and the raw fruit itself cannot be imported. So if you're American and want to try it, your options are fully cooked canned Aki or going to Florida where a few people grow it domestically. Next we have bird's nest soup. This is another one that I vaguely heard of, and for years I just assumed the name was a playful metaphor, like ants on a log or shit on a shingle. Turns out, nope, this dish contains an actual bird nest, not like a pile of twigs like I was picturing, but rather a specific type of nest only made by certain species of swiflets. These nest are mostly made out of musins, which are a set of proteins that, among other things, served to thicken all those wonderful secretions our bodies make. There's a little bit in human saliva, a little bit more in mucus, and in swiflet saliva look out pal. So all the swiflet does is it finds a nice wall, starts whew. Laying out fat strings of slumber, which dry, and eventually she's got a nice place to roost. That is, right up until some gourmand says, Ah, today I crave bird spit. Ah, you can keep the eggs low. And they then reconstitute it back into its original gelatinous texture. Unfortunately, these nest can't enter the US, and believe it or not, eating bird saliva is a great way to catch bird flu. And now the time has come to speak of the Orte-Lon. The Orte-Lon is a kind of bunting, which is a sort of passory, which is a type of bird. They're birds. Like many animals, they have a long history of being eaten by the French, but what separates the Orte-Lon from your average squab or feson is the unique way in which it is prepared and eaten. They're typically caught with nets and kept in the dark, which causes them to overeat for some reason. Once it's about twice as fat, the entire bird is then thrown into a container of brandy. Alive. And sealed in. While this serves to marinate the creature, it also drowns in the process, thereby killing one bird with no stones. The Orte-Lon is then roasted, plucked, and presented hole to the consumer, who inserts the carcass into their mouth, feet first. As they chew, one hand continues holding the bird's head, while the other picks out the larger bones. The ritual is usually performed with a towel or large napkin over one's head. There's a few explanations for the purpose of the towel. Some say it's just there to keep the aromas in. While others say it's there to, quote, shield from God's eyes, the shame of such a decadent and disgraceful act. Yeah, this one, I'm okay with not trying actually. Notable fans of this dish include, not joking, Bill Cosby and the guy who invented the lobotomy. Ah, to be part of that social club. Our mission is to eat birds whole, and then make people not remember things. Even more tolons was banned across the EU in 2007. Not for any ethical reason, but because French people did this so much that the entire Orte-Lon population was threatened. Thankfully, as of 2018, their conservation status is under least concern, so hopefully the French can get back to it soon. Anyway, that's all I have for today. Till next time, I'm Sam and Ella, and thank you for watching.