Hey, Persons of Age. So long before the era of The Wiki, there used to be these things called Encyclopedias, where for a small fee of thousands of dollars, they would mail you a tiny fraction of the knowledge we have access to today. And you could put it on a shelf, and it would sit there and make you look learned. But while not reading it in Encyclopedia is easy, not creating one is much easier. And yet we do it. Encyclopedia Britannica is still in circulation today, and it's maintained by around 100 full-time editors and more than 4,000 contributors. So whose idea was this? Who was the first person to sit down and say, hmm, today I feel like writing down everything? To answer that, we must look nearly 2,000 years in the past, to the mid-70s AD. Pliny the Elder, author, philosopher, veteran, imperial administrator, and one curious Buccaru. Early in his life, Pliny's father took him to Rome to study law. When, as a young adult, he spent several years as a junior officer in the Roman military. His interest in literature made him a few high-ranking friends there, and when he came home, he took to writing. Unfortunately, a certain apocryphal fiddler was in charge at the time, who wasn't exactly kind to intellectuals. So Pliny kept it on the D.L., mostly writing about things like grammar and rhetoric, which at the time few people found worth freaking out over. Fortunately, in June of 68, Nero finally took a hit and killed himself, and following the chaos of the year of the Four Rampers, one Vespation came out on top. Vespation was a general, and a friend of Pliny's. So when he became emperor, he promoted Pliny to procurator, which was like the governor of a province. Suddenly, with this guy on the throne and a cushy job to pay the bills, Pliny found himself in a position to make complete use of his own potential. By day, he continued his administrative duties, but during nights, he wrote, and over the course of a few years, with nothing but his own wits and whatever authors he could get his hands on, he created a work known as the Historia Naturalis. This consisted of 37 books, each broken up into many dozens of chapters, covering just about every topic there is. While it wasn't quite an encyclopedia in the modern sense, it's still the earliest surviving attempt that an all-encompassing scholarly work, and it is a trip. I've been reading it. It is fascinating. Not only is a reflection of what people did and did not know in the Roman Empire, but also as a reflection of Pliny himself, who is a character, and who made zero attempt to hide it. So today, I come to you with a brief summary of the first part of a brief summary of all human knowledge according to one dude, Circa 7780. Now, the original thing makes for a fairly long read. Even removing most of the more uninteresting details, I've only managed to fit the first two books into today's video. As for the other 35, we'll see. I'm going to let Pliny do the narration himself using my voice. He gets a lot of things shockingly right and a lot shockingly wrong. Rather than constantly chiming in with fact checks, I'm just going to throw chess.com analysis icons in the corner for every claim he makes. I'll also provide relevant snippets of the actual text and paraphrasing just for reference. If you're one of the people who likes to pause the video, just to see the funny ha ha as I snuck into the freeze frame rest assured, there will be none today. You can just slide a play. One last warning, while there is a loose overall structure to this thing, it also seems like Pliny just kind of wrote whatever was in his head for a given chapter. He has a habit of jumping back and forth between completely disparate topics and going on weird personal tangents in between. I am presenting this thing in the exact order it's written, so if it at any point seems utterly scatterbrained, it's his fault, not mine. Anyway, take it away. Yo. Right, let me get right ahead of things. These books are strictly about this world and the things we can see around it. If you're one of those madmen who think there are other worlds beyond this one, give it a rest. Alright, that's psychotic. You can't know these things and you can't grasp infinity. Stop trying, you'll hurt yourself. So the heavens are a perfect sphere and they spin around us perfectly. It takes 24 hours for them to do one spin, which is actually really fast because the universe is huge. In fact, massive objects are whooshing around us this fast should be incredibly loud at all times. Why isn't this the case? MMM. The whole shabang is composed of four elements, right, which sort themselves by weight. Earth is heavy as so it falls to the middle of everything into a sphere and it stays still. It's the only still thing. On top of that is water, then air, and fires the lightest, which is why the sun and stars are made of it. Sun kicks ass, easily the best of the seven things up there. Basically a god, not literally. Don't try to answer questions about gods nature, by the way. You'll just confuse yourself. There's at most one god and he's everything and he doesn't do weird human shit like getting jealous or banging other gods. I swear, people just make up new gods every time they want something specific. Let me tell you, there was a temple on Palatine Hill dedicated through my tax dollars, by the way, to fever, like the illness. You understand that's bad shit, right? Just like that are why we've got more gods than people at this point. Folks in other countries worship animals and have seen things like stinking meats that are gods of theft and other crimes. It's all folly. You want to be godly, just help others. That's the way the old Roman nobles, and that's the way the nobles noble of all, emperor of hispation Augustus, who may or may not be my best buddy. But anyway, if there is a god, he doesn't care about what you do. People put crazy emphasis on the religion, avoiding foods, worrying themselves sick about all kinds of sacred rules. Look, I hang around the capital. There's a lot of rat bastards in politics, real scumbags, and they are thaw-riving. You don't need to torture yourself. Have a bacon, nobody gives a shit. Back to the stars, which by the way, also don't give a shit about you specifically. For big history-changing stuff, yeah, they'll act up, but you reader do not need to worry. Anyway, most of them are fixed in the sphere, really high up there. We'll call this the heavens. Between the heavens and the earth, there are seven other bodies to talk about. Highest up there, we got Saturn, then there's Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon. The heavens spend to the right, all these guys spend to the left. Saturn is cold, Mars is hot, but Jupiter? Jupiter's just right. The Sun's orbit is made up of 360 degrees, one degree per day, except not quite. We have to add five and a fourth days, or else our Sun dials break. Down to Venus and Mercury, these guys are weird because they like to hang around the Sun. Fun fact, Venus is actually bright enough to help out the Sun and Moon sometimes. When it's helping the Sun, we call it Lucifer, the Lightbringer. And when it's helping the Moon, we call it Vesper, the Sleepy Time Guy. Mercury tries to do the same thing, but he's much more lame and cringe, so he can't. The Moon's got phases, as you know, and she gets closer and farther away at different times. And Dimeon figured out lots of cool info about the Moon's orbit, and U.S. holds bullied him for it. Yeah, this man unraveled the secrets of the universe, and in return, everyone goes, oh, oh, he's in love with the Moon. That's because humans are sick in the head. They'd rather read stories about bloodshed and massacres, like that matters more than the fabric of reality. Get a clue. Where the Moon has phases because of the way it borrows light from the Sun, which might be what these other guys do, too, we don't know yet. All those spots on it are actually puddles, because it likes to draw up moisture from the Earth, which is where we get the tides. And every now and then, it casts its shadow on Earth. We call these eclipses, and they are freaking wicked. Eclipses can happen the other way around, too, and the way these happen proved that the Moon is bigger than the Earth, and the Sun's way bigger than both of them. Oh, and just so we're clear, eclipses are a natural thing. It's not the apocalypse, or God's wrath. They follow rules, even the Greeks could predict them, settle down. Back to the planets, they're all kind of in the same belt up there. And they all get farther and closer to us at different points, because the orbits are complicated. They mostly follow the same rules as each other, but there's some goofiness, like the ones further than the Sun move the slowest when they're the farthest away from us, but the closer ones move the quickest, then. We can chalk this up to the sun emitting vapors that must push them around in weird ways. Thunderbolts come from Jupiter, and we don't know why. One theory is that it's because Saturn is very moist, and Mars is very fiery, and when they meet in the middle, we get celestial fire thrown down at us, same reason a wet log crackles and throws off embers in a fire. There is a type of star that moves around and vanishes. We call these comets, and they come in all kinds of flavors. These might actually be omens. I mean, there have been some weird coincidences. Some people think comets are permanent, and we only see them when they swing by the right way. While others say they're just flare-ups of celestial vapor that dissipate on their own. We've got some real anomalies, things we've only rarely seen. The sun goes dim sometimes, like when Caesar got killed. Math fact, during the Civil War with Mark Antony, it stayed dim for like a year. Multiple suns have been seen at the same time on several occasions, but no more than three. Three is the record. Same with moons. One time a burning shield darted across the sky, throwing sparks as it went. Another time someone saw a shooting star fly towards us until it was as big as the moon, and then it turned around and went back to being a normal comet. The sun was like, I don't know what the fuck he's talking about. Finally there are the stars' caster and polyx. If you see both of them, it's good luck, but be advised. If one's alone, he turns into a little bastard. He can and will come down and set your boat on fire. That's the celestial sphere taking care of. Now let's move down a peg to the air. The air ends way before the moon, and it mixes with water vapor to create the weather. The sun dries up water on the earth. It goes up and turns into clouds, and then it's pushed back down again by the, you know, the star forces that keep stuff on earth. We get rain, inhale and such, and it keeps going, round and round, like some kind of water cycle. The seasons go around once a year, and we don't know exactly why, but it definitely has to do with the motion of the stars. Like summer, wet, or dry, hotter, cold, and that influences the climate when they move. Especially Saturn, he always soaks the place going by, he's a freak, like actually. Oh, I must forgot the dog star, this guy's nuts. It kindles the sun's vapors, and when it rises, the ocean gets upset, wind for mence, and stagnant waters are set in motion. It is a creature called the Orics in Egypt, and when the dog star goes up, they look at it, and they sneeze out of worship. It also makes dogs go rabbit, hence the name. But the stars in the seasons they create have profound effects on nature, and it's not just the weather changes that do it. Some flora and fauna have weird links to the heavens. Polygium blooms right on the winter solstice, even when hung up to dry in the house. And Heliotrop follows the sun, even when it's cloudy. The moon makes oysters bigger and ants lazier, and diseases in the eyes of livestock will grow and diminish based on its phase. That's just a few examples. Hey, let's talk about the winds. The ancient Greeks have published a lot of great observations about the winds. Those were warish, disconnected times, which makes their work all the more impressive. Nowadays, in this great piece, every shore of this sea welcomes Romans. And what are we doing? When's the last time we sent anybody out to investigate this world with inquiry in their heart? Plenty of expeditions, sure, but that's just because you got some shit to sell. Rather than pursue science that could benefit all of mankind, you're hawking olives and Byzantium just to watch your abacus go up. Greed. But anyway, how many winds are there? The ancients recognize four, but that's clearly not enough. The next generation overcorrected, brought it up to twelve, and shit got messy and elegant. So today, us modern folk take the middle of the road with a nice, even eight total. Two for each quarter of the heavens, and they've got a bunch of fun names. And yeah, if we wanted to add in the old reject winds, we could. And there's even a couple extra secret winds only recognized by a select few. Plus, there's certain winds that only blow in certain regions of the world. But you know, broad strokes, it'll do you fine. These winds each blow at their various allotted times of the year, and the winter ones make for particularly rough seas. In former times, pirates were compelled by the fear of death to rush into death and to brave the winter ocean. Now we are driven to it by avarice. Direction isn't the only difference between the winds though. They can all be characterized by their temperature, their moisture, and the kind of weather they tend to bring. Volturnus is dry, septentria brings snow and hail, austere is sultry, a kilo is the most healthy, real motley crew, those winds. Well, while those guys are generally pretty calm, we must also consider the sudden violent gusts we call storms. Storms are self-contained events that come in a few flavors themselves, like echinepheus which brings thunder and lightning, or typhon, which doesn't. Certain storms also give rise to whirlwinds which are these giant, loud pillars of wind and moisture that destroy everything in their path. They are so dense that they can actually support themselves on the ground, and if they happen over the sea, they suck up the water as they go. Thunderstorms produce lightning, and lightning is crazy. It has this unique property where it can damage things on the inside while leaving the outside unharmed. It can empty casks of their wine without breaking the vessel itself, and it can melt golden silver without burning the bag they are in. One time a noble woman named Marsha was struck by lightning while pregnant, and while the baby got fried, she herself survived without injury. Many people believe that when lightning strikes a man, it can be used to predict his future, with terms and conditions, of course. Some historians also state that man is capable of invoking lightning. The author L. Pizzo said that the ancient king Numa did it all the time. Then his successor, Talis Haastilius, tried to imitate him, but he didn't do the ceremonies right so he just got electrocuted. Is any of this true? Ah, maybe. At the very least, I buy the fortune telling thing. Now we all know that we see lightning before we hear thunder. That's nothing special, it's just because light has a greater velocity than sound. It's the same event, thunder's just the sound that lightning makes. Fun fact, man is the only animal that isn't always killed by lightning. Any other creature? Instant death every time, but we're special. Lightning can strike just about anything, except for laurel, seals, and eagles, they're all safe. It also never descends more than five feet into the ground, so if you're someone who's scared of lightning, your best bets are deep caves or a tent made out of seal skin. Besides all this normal weather, we do have records of some real weird stuff falling from the sky. It has rained milk and blood on many occasions. One time it rained flesh, and the fallen meat that wasn't eaten by birds just didn't rot. You know, your casual immortal meat storm. One time it rained wool, and other time there was a shower of baked tiles. What a country, eh? Stones have been known to fall from the sky now and then. The Greeks liked to brag about how the philosopher and exagreus correctly predicted such an event, but I find that dubious. We know A stone fell, it was like a wagon load big, but I think anagreus just got lucky. I mean, the guy said it would fall out of the sun. What do you want about? The sun can't do a rock, it doesn't have rocks. Finally, rainbows are nothing special. We get them all the time. They don't predict the weather or anything else, they're just something that happens. Raised of sunlight, hit a hollow cloud and they get refracted. And the colors are due to a mixture of clouds, air and fire. Let's come down from the air onto the earth. Good old mother earth. The other three elements are bastards. You never know when they're going to turn on you. Fire burns us, water peltzes as hail and floods our villages, air rages and squalls, but earth? And what a bounty she has for us, given us crops, flowers, medicinal plants. In her compassion she even gave us poison, so in life sucks we can kill ourselves quickly. And what does man do? Naturally, we take advantage of her kindness. We torture her for all the iron, timber and stone she can bear, and then we use that iron to tear out her entrails in search of gems to put on our fingers. Do you know how many hands have to be worked to the bone just to decorate one joint of another? Honestly, if hell existed, all this greedy digging would get us there. But of course, whatever we take from her, we all pay back and blood and bones eventually. World keeps turning. Just wish you all weren't such ingrates about it. Anyway as we said, the earth is a perfect sphere, except for mountains and valleys, but close enough. There's a question we get all the time when people first learn about this, particularly from the commoners. They'll go right, if earth's a ball, why don't people on the other side fall off? To that I say, why doesn't the whole thing fall down? Where would it go if it did? Up into the other sky? That doesn't make sense. Now the earth is right where it belongs. Even though they say, alright fine, but why is the ocean flattened? Guess what? It's not. Here, take a glass of water, fill it to the brim, then drop a little salt in there, see that slight subtle curve? That's the ocean. You can see it when a ship goes out to sea. The bottom bit will disappear over the horizon before the mast does, and so it goes all the way around. One time some Indians got blown off course by a storm and ended up in Germany. Side note, this was not the first nor the last time the translator started his annotation with this exact 11 syllable sigh of frustration. The ocean they most have crossed had to be massive, like half the globe. Real quick, let's think about how much of the world is even inhabitable. We got one hemisphere over here which is divided into five zones, right? On the top and bottom, miserable, nothing but cold and darkness, in the middle, sun's too close, burns everything, miserable. So already we only got a fifth of the place to ourselves. Then taken to account all the seas, and mountains, and wilderness, and other crap in the way, there's barely anything left. And this is what every war in history has been over, this tiny portion of what amounts to a speck in the universe. Even if you conquered the world, you'd have barely started, and how much of it can you bring with you to the grave, huh? So the earth is in the middle of the universe, and we know this because of the equinoxes. Day and night perfectly balanced on these two dates. We're right in the middle, it just makes sense. There's plenty of other proof that we live on a globe. Certain stars can only be seen from different parts of the world, and that's because the earth's in the way. Just ask a sailor, they'll see new stars squink their way out of the horizon as they go. Also eclipses show that the time of day depends on your east-west position. A few years back, the same eclipse of the sun, the same exact event was seen at Aiton Campania, but at noon in Armenia. Try sprained in that one, plainists? Here's another. One time, a courier named Philanides ran from Ciccianda Ellis, which is a distance of 1200 stadia. The way there took him nine hours, but then the return trip took him 15. And it's not because he was tired or took a break somewhere. Brother, he ran against the sun. Likewise, the length of shadows on a given day depends on your latitude. In Egypt, on the summer solstice at noon, the sun dials cast a shadow half the length of the pointy bit, whereas in Venice, at the very same hour, the shadows as long as the pointy bit. If you keep going south, eventually you reach a point where the sun's straight up at the solstice. We dug a well in a town called Sain, just to check, and sure enough, it's light all the way down. If you go even further south, you'll notice the sun do that twice a year at equal distances from the solstice. There's also a place in India where there just aren't shadows, ever, and as a consequence, the people there don't know what hours are. But because of the way the sun moves, you'll notice that the longest day of the year is longer the further north you go. In Alexandria, on the summer solstice, they get 14 hours of daylight. In Italy, it's 15, and in Britain, it's 17. Following this pattern, we believe that at the very north pole, it's 24, meaning they get 6 months of daylight at a time, with 6 months of night on the other side. The difference in climate based on latitude is clearly reflected in the nations that live there. For one, the Ethiopians. Let's talk about earthquakes. The Babylonians used to blame these on the movements of the stars. One guy has even said to have predicted an earthquake through astrological means. Is that true? I'll let you be the judge. I for one believe that earthquakes are caused by the winds. Think about it. Before an earthquake, it's always very calm. The seas are tranquil. There's not a single bird in the sky. Why? No wind. They can't fly. Where the wind go? Underground. It gets stuck down there, and it builds up until finally hell literally breaks loose. It starts off with a horrible noise like cows mowing or people fighting in the distance. Then everything shakes. Hard. Whole city walls get knocked down, and sometimes the earth opens up and swallows them entirely. The shaking is even noticed by people on ships who get hit by waves without any wind. Earthquakes also make well water turn cloudy and smelly. So the obvious question is, what the hell can we do about it? Well, places with a lot of natural caverns or man-made sewers tend to get fewer earthquakes. That's because the underground air has an easy way to escape. Things that are arched or that lean against each other also tend to fare better in the event of an earthquake. Barring all else, at least things are usually over with quickly. Although some earthquakes have been known to last days, months, even one or two years straight. As for related anomalies, about a century and a half ago, two mountains slammed together and collapsed, and fire and smoke came from the ground where they stood. More recently, under Nero, there was a knight named Vectius Marcellus, who woke up to find that his fields and all the ground swapped places with each other. No maim or destruction just- oh, this is over here now. But just as Earth swallows up land in one place, she spits it back out elsewhere. As such, island sometimes rise up spontaneously out of open sea. We have tons of records of these events across the Mediterranean. They're often accompanied by a giant fiery explosion and loads of dead fish floating everywhere. It's said that one time some people ate these fish, and then they too immediately died. But enough of tragedies. Let's turn back to the wonders of the Earth, such as there are many caverns filled with gas that instantly kills things. Some kill only birds, others kill everything but people, and still more kill everything and people. In a few caves, those who breed the gas and said become intoxicated and start predicting the future, as is the case with the famous Oracle at Delphi. We can ascribe these effects to the divine power of nature. I mean, what else could it be? How the hell do you explain that rationally? But while most islands are attached to the Earth at the bottom, there are a few that float. The Kalamune Islands are not only moved by the wind, but the people on them can actually push them around with long poles to go wherever they want. There's another group of floating islands known as the Dancers, so called because they move to the beat of drums played on their surface. I've got a few more miscellaneous wonders here. Let me just rattle them off. And Harpasa, there's a giant rock that can be moved by one finger, but not by the force of the whole body. And Parasini, there's a type of dirt that heals all wounds. In Trois, there's a stone that makes dead bodies dissolve. Near the Indus River, there's two mountains, one of which attracts iron and the other repels it. When you're near nails in your shoes, you couldn't step on the one or off the other. In Argyrapa, the grainy plan doesn't grow, and in Christominium, the hay springs up already rotten. Let's turn now to the tides. We know these are caused by the moon, and to a lesser degree the sun. Moon overhead, they go up, moon on the other side, they go down. A large open ocean is needed to manifest this power of the planet, which is why neither lakes nor rivers have tides. In Britain, the tide rises 120 feet. The tides do a full cycle twice a day, except in Uboia, where they do it seven times. Aristotle said that animals only die when the tide is ebbing, but really that's only true of people. Watch. Sea water is salty, and that's because the sun evaporates all the mild sweet water, while leaving all the gross crap that ends up in the ocean behind. A number of estimates have been made for the depth of the ocean, ranging from 15st stadia to who the hell knows. Sea water is also heavier than fresh water, which is why things float better on it. As with everything in nature, bodies of water have no shortage of weird stuff they get down to. Some rivers actually run underground before bursting out again elsewhere. We know they're the same river because if you chuck stuff in one, it comes out the other side. There's a lake in Judea where nothing sinks. At all. In D'Donna, there's a spring called the fountain of Jupiter, and though the water there is cold as ice, it'll relay extinguish torches held near its surface. The river may last turns sheep black when they drink from it, while the sephysis makes them turn white. The pennies turns them black again, and then the zanthus makes them red. The river astices makes the horses their produce black milk, which the people use for food. There's a spring in the island of Andrus that tastes like wine. The river lancesce this taste sour, but gets you drunk like wine, and in Arcadia there's a river called the sticks that kills you instantly. In LaBrosa's there are three springs, all of which also kill you instantly, but in a much less painful fashion than the sticks. That's another of those. From here we turn at last to the fourth element, fire. In Samosata, along the Euphrates, there's a big pull of this flammable mud they call Maltha. It sticks to everything it touches, and if you set it on fire, even water won't extinguish it. Romans invaded these lands long ago, and the people they're poured the stuff on our soldiers, cooked them in their armor like a crab. There are certain places in the world where fires always burning. The summits of many mountains are home to such flames, as are the occasional crater in field. And of course the sun and stars are no exception. What a weird thing these are, like fire needs fuel to spread and sustain itself. So what is it that can feed these flames without destroying itself in the process? There's a thinker for ye. But besides these guys, where else does fire come from? You got fires lit by men for one. Certain stones have fire in them innately. There's the fire you get from rubbing sticks together, and there's the fire in clouds that causes lightning. You can also use concave mirrors to focus sunlight into fire, highly potent and do be careful. Sudden fires also manifest occasionally in the human body. One time when sixth king of Rome's service Tullyus was a child, he was just sleeping there when suddenly flames shot out of his freaking head. I've got more fun facts like this to drop later, but it's about time we wrap this book up. And what better way than by sizing up the entire globe? So I ran some numbers, added some distances, checked some other people's answers. I've got some estimates here on the width of the inhabited world, from the mouth of the Ganges in India to the port city of Gades in the West. These all fall around 9,000 miles, give or take a thousand. But like I said before, the uninhabited earth extends far beyond that. Maritastani's was a really bright dude, and he put the circumference at 31,500 miles. What a big wild world it is. Just how wild? You'll have to tune in next time for books 3-6, all of which are titled an account of countries, nations, seas, towns, havens, mountains, rivers, distances, and peoples who now exist or formerly existed. But for now, I'm Pliny the Elder. At Gratios Agotibi, qui es pictandi? The Pope's sitting at home fuming at my pronunciation right there.