Hey kids, from clubbing seals to inventing new compound nouns for snow, nobody knows how to kick it, quite like the Inuit. Of course, if you're a close-minded tree dweller like me, you might initially think that they can't be that good at storytelling, given that they only know about like, six things. But that's not true, they've actually gotten incredibly complex in fascinating oral tradition. That's one about it, there's plenty of these guys around today, but they've got Jesus and microwaves and shit and that's boring. We want to talk about this stuff from before missionaries came and sent their miserable way of life to a farm-up state. So instead, let a 20-year-old college kid who's never lived outside of Delaware tell you all about it. Obviously, disclaimer, Inuits are super diverse. Calling a caribou in you at a copper in you at is like calling a copper caribou a caribou caribou. Sure, they both look the same from far away, but when a thunderstorm hits, you better know which one to hide under. As such, while most of the following can be applied in broad terms, most in you at the little details come from a variety of subcultures that don't necessarily represent the whole, got it, swank. Now, a lot of the world's faiths are centered around bringing people together and inspiring them with stories and images of the divine, so as to give them a wider sense of purpose here on earth. That's all well and good, but that whole search for greater meaning thing only really comes into play once your original purpose of making sure you don't die is pretty much figured out. And you see, it ain't so easy living in a place where plants can't grow and being naked for an hour means certain death. As such, their beliefs were a little more practical, being more so geared towards fostering the paranoid levels of fear required to survive in such a hostile environment. For example, the Inuit believe that everyone has a sort of life force or soul, what they called a neon-nique, and like plenty of religions, they believed it lived on after death and could metal in the world of mortals. But while most cultures regard animals as being spiritually inferior meat puppets, to the Inuits, a creature's soul is just as powerful and vengeful as that of a person. And like I said up there in the Arctic, not much greenery in the scenery, so they basically had no choice but to devour nothing but souls every single day. And wouldn't you know it, souls don't much care for getting ate. So the Inuit made sure to follow a complex set of guidelines on how to play Kate their prey in the afterlife, lest the pissed off ghost of that Arctic turn whispers sweet nothings into a polar bear's ears and turns your whole village into a big Japanese flag by sunrise. Here's a few. If you kill something, make sure you eat it all. Just as an American who doesn't clean his plate doesn't get dessert, and Inuit who doesn't eat all those walrus doesn't get any more walrus. Ever. So they starve. If you kill a polar bear, make sure to point its head towards the direction it came from, so it can find its way home more easily. If you pull a seal out of the water, give him some fresh water so he's not thirsty when you bash his brain in. Also its spirit lives in its bladder, so make sure to hold onto it until the yearly bladder festival. Wherever one gets together, blows up their bladders like balloons and throws them out to sea so they can reincarnate into new seals. These taboos aren't all just about hunting though. For some reason there's a load of them about pregnancy. They'll make fun of people's facial features or else the baby will have the same features. Don't walk backwards or else the baby will come out backwards, dangerous. Face your bed towards a doorway or it'll come out sideways. Also dangerous. Don't wrap rope around your hand or it'll come out with the umbilical cord around its neck, extremely dangerous. Don't drink directly from a soup bowl or it'll come out with dark skin. Not touching that one. Don't put a bowl on your head or else it'll be wearing the placenta like a hat to hilarious. And the list goes on. Central to the consequences of breaking a lot of these rules is the being known as Sedna. The story behind Sedna varies pretty wildly between different groups of Inuits but here's the gist of it. She was once a young girl who pissed everyone off, either by being annoying or eating too much food or rejecting an arranged marriage or marrying a dog for some reason. So her father throws her out of a kayak and when she tries to get back in, he chops off all her fingers. The sea goddess sees this, throws her long floppy seaweed brow, does a sassy snap and the girl turns into an immortal sea witch while her disembodied fingers turn into the first seals. And to this day, Sedna sits at the bottom of the ocean, growing new fingers which promptly fall off and turn into all the world seal lions and narwhal versus. That isn't until someone goofs up in some small arbitrary fashion like, yeah Sedna, bad news. This caught a guy chewing a piece of blubber once or ever that. Well, he wasn't looking north while he did it. Are you fucking kidding me? It is defense, he was standing right on the pole so he literally couldn't look anywhere but south. He could have moved. That's it, no more fingy foods for three moons. Another fun creation myth is how the moon and sun came to be. So long ago there were these two siblings named Molina and Enigin. The two got along just fine as kids but as the two got older, they were put into their respective genders living areas and saw each other less and less. One day Enigin got the feeling that his lower nose was in dire need of some Eskimo cases. So that night he snuck into the women's lodges, saw a sister, thought, hmm, I picked that one and proceeded to do, you know, unspeakable things, technically becoming his own Eskimo brother. But it was too dark at the time for Molina to tell what happened. The next night Enigin's like, oh fuck it dude again. Only this time Molina smears soot all over his face. So later she goes over to the men's lodges and who has crap all over his face but her brother. They're so mad that she cuts off her own breasts with a knife, puts them in a bowl, throws them at Enigin and says, if you enjoy me so much then here, eat them. Go ahead, eat my disembodied quivering titties. She runs off into the night with a torch and Enigin is really remorseful or horny or something. So he chases after her with his own torch and they end up running so fast that they took off like a plane into the sky and Molina became the sun while Enigin became the moon. He's me, Mrs. Elder. If the sun and moon didn't exist yet, how did he do that stuff at night when there was no night? Now some details of the story are tied into real world phenomena. Some say that Enigin tripped and messed up his torch which is why the moon is so dim. And the moon cycles are because he gets really skinny from chasing after her for so long. And the new moon is when he goes away for a few days to hunt seals so he can fatten back up. But here's the kicker. Nobody ever explains what the whole lopping off her tits part was supposed to represent. That's entirely just creative liberty. Just like, ah yes, that's why the sun doesn't have tits. Probably for the best it doesn't. Otherwise half the population will be blind by now and worse it's the half that makes up 85% of my viewer base. So you know what, thanks for slicing and dicing them tea towels Molina, I kinda owe you my career. But as for you, your eyes are valuable. You should treat them to something more substantial and informative. Like say, a library of high quality exclusive documentaries, sponsor time, curiosity stream was founded by the dude behind the Discovery channel and it's great for someone like me who works down any useless knowledge he sees like the brave gators keeping America's sewers free of rats. And with thousands of titles, a lot of what your curiosity stream exclusives, it's hard not to find something that interests you. Here's a gem I watched recently, The Kingdom, How Fun Guy Made Our World. Mushrooms are honestly like if you told aliens about earth and they tried their best to recreate what they thought plants were. Real wild stuff. You can try curiosity stream for absolutely free if you sign up at curiositystream.com slash samanella and use promo code samanella during the sign up process. Also, signing up for a year of curiosity stream will now give you nebula for free. What's nebula glad I ask? A bunch of independent creators that I may or may not associate with in some way decided to start their own streaming service completely free of ads and full of content that can't be seen anywhere else. I hardly make content for my own channel so god knows I couldn't muster up any nebula exclusives. But here's some guys you have, if you like them, go check it out. Anyway, that's all for today. Until next time, I'm Samanella and...