This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids, time to alienate 23.9% of the United States for my potential audience. Cause today, we're talking popes. Now don't get me wrong, the modern papacy is a great thing. Just a genuinely virtuous man being elected to govern and send example for Christians everywhere. That's awesome. But back in the day, not so. See, in the middle ages, the church was one of the greatest powers in the western world, having massive influence over monarchs and layman alike. And as we know, with great power, comes great tomfoolery. Here's some of the less wholesome popes that history has to offer. Popes, Stephen the Six, assume the pontificate in May of 896, during a time of great instability for the papacy, where rulers and families of all different shapes and sizes were vying for influence over the Catholic church. As such, successive popes from the spirit often add different ideas about how things should be run. Stephen, for example, didn't much care for Pope Formosis, the guy before last. Why? Uh, it's complicated. Even if I could wrap my head around all this, it'd probably be boring as hell. So just take it on good faith that Steve had a lot of beef with Formosis. So much beef, or as we call it, papal bull, that Stephen couldn't even be happy that the dude was already dead. So he had the eight-month-old corpse of Formosis dug up, dressed up in pop clothes, sat down on a throne, and literally put on trial with a deacon appointed to give all his responses for him. So you thought you could get away from the law with that little dying stunt of yours? Well, tell me, Mr. Thrombosis, did you violate canon law, commit perjury, and pretend to be a bishop when you weren't? Yes, pasta fuzzule, I am a fool. I've heard all I need to hear. This court finds you guilty. And everything you did as Pope, we legally declare to be fake and dumb and stupid and dumb. Now Throm in the river. What? The river? Can you do that? See the hat? That means I'm Pope. P-O-O-P-Pope. You better three-point that bitch into the briny deep right quick, or I'm gonna raise hell. Metaphorically. So they throw him in the river. This all thing caused an uproar among Formosis supporters, and after Formosis's corpse was allegedly seen at performing miracles at the river bank, Stephen ended up being overthrown and prisoned and executed by strangulation. The body now slimy and disgusting was fished out of the tibre, and re-interred in St. Peter's Basilica, where it rests to this day. Next we'll talk about John the Twelve. This guy already looks like one of my characters, why don't we just uh... yeah, there we go. This guy ascended to the throne when he was just 18 years old, which is insane. If I was elected world's biggest hat-wire at that age, you better believe things would get real on paper real quick. I'm talking gambling, hawkers, setting fires, and toasting to the devil. And when you know it, these are all things John the Twelve did. It said that he took the sacred palace and literally made it into a whorehouse. Matter of fact, while researching the guy, I stumbled across this list of sexually active popes. This is a real wikipedia article. Take a hike toilet paper orientation daddy's got a new favorite. John is featured prominently on this list, of course. He had a thing for widows for some reason. Personally I'm not big on weepy old hags. I'm more of a carefree young hag type of guy, but to each their own. He also banged his niece a bunch, which not the most virtuous act, but yeah, in the middle ages, in bloodline, fucking whatever. His playboy lifestyle eventually caught up to him, leading to the sign-out of Rome, where everyone got together to talk about what a piece of shitty is, so they could kick him off the throne. Besides all the deviancy, there was a lot of things they had problems with. For one, someone once offered John some money to ordain a 10-year-old as a bishop, and he was just like, I would have done it for free, honestly. Like how big those robes are on him, that's hilarious. He also had a deacon ordained in a horse stable, just like, oh for fuck's sake, alright, let's get this over with. Uh, shouldn't we be doing this in like, a church? Listen Bucco, if it's good enough for Jesus to be born in, it's good enough for you to have your little cardinal party. No, sir, not cardinal, he's just a deacon. Now if you keep running your mouth, y'all aren't. He also like going on hunting trips now and then, generally considered to be something popes don't do, although my suspicion is that they were just tired of cleaning his big stupid camo hat every time. Probably his worst act though, was putting on a helmet, followed closely in second by the time one of his subdeacons got on his nerves, so he literally cut off his dick and murdered him. So between all this and some conflicts with Otto I, the Holy Roman Empire, John was uncanonically ousted in 963, except as soon as Otto left Rome, nobody was there to pressure him off physically anymore, so John was like a lull, just kidding, rounded up all his groupies, kicked the new probe off the throne, and continued his role like nothing happened by early 964. But just a few months later, fate cut up with John, and he died the way he lived, committing adultery. Now let's be real, we all have our little guilty pleasures in life. Some people like a nice bag of cheetos, others like scented candles, or poorly drawn educational videos. Alexander VI, like watching horses fuck. According to Vatican Chronicleer Johann Berkhard, he would specifically arrange for his stallions to be introduced to mayors and heat outside his palace, and he'd stand up on his balcony to watch him violently mate, which just tickled him pink for some fucking reason, and he'd laugh uproariously during the entire spectacle. He also once threw a party in the palace called the banquet of chestnuts, also referred to as the joust of horse. Wait a minute, horse jousting, horse is banging. Does dyslexia thing back then? Now but during the banquet, Alexander had 50 of Rome's finest raggedy harleids line up and strip down for him in his gas, which by the way included two of his children, which by the way, he had many children, but at this point hardly a concern. Guests began throwing chestnuts at the ladies, who got down on their hands and knees and scrambled frantically, like the cook at denys when I held him at gunpoint, trying to collect as many as they could. After this went on for a while, Alexander was like alright kiddos, game time, whoever can bang the most brawls before the night's over wins Rome's finest silks, and the only condition is that anybody who makes a joke about nutting on someone's chest gets disqualified. It's too easy. This is all according to that one Johann guy mind you, some secondary sources differ pretty significantly on the more lured details of all this, so to take it with a grain of salt. But at the same time, this guy was the official record taker for the ceremonies he was involved with, so it seems equally likely to me that the other guys just wanted to save a bit of face, but who knows. In the end, primary sources are usually the most reputable source of information. After all, what better way to learn about stuff than from people who have direct experience in the subject? That's why you need to try Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community with over 25,000 classes in design, business, technology, and more. Premium membership gives you unlimited access to high quality classes on must-know topics, so you can improve your skills, unlock new opportunities, and do the work you love. Let's say you have some kind of grand goal you want to achieve, like say, starting your own papacy and taking over the world. Skillshare has got all the resources you'd ever need to bring that goal to fruition. You got 10 ways to boost your natural charisma, very important with any new religion? How do the wealthy create tax exempt wealth? That's a given. Basics of balloon twisting, just because they say children are the most important ones to indoctrinate, you know, the whole joke camel theory, etc. Join the more than 7 million people already learning on Skillshare today, with a special offer just for my viewers. The first 500 people who visit the link in the description will get two months of unlimited access to the 25,000 plus classes on Skillshare for absolutely free, so please start filling up that void in your skull you call a brain today. Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Sam and Ella, and thank you for watching.