This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids, now we all know that fate is a fickle thing. Some of us may try to defy its will, but there's enough small businesses with pizza hut roofs out there to tell you that such a thing is ultimately futile. As for most of us, we tend to have our fair share of good and bad luck throughout our lives. But every now and then, RNG's is smiles upon some drooling little loaf child and says, Yoooo my son, you're the thing they want with all the fickle pudding. That child was Timothy Dexter. Dexter was born in Maldon, Massachusetts in 1747. He had a humble upbringing, dropping out of school as an 8-year-old to work as a farmhand and a leather worker. But Dexter thought he deserved better, so when he grew up, he married one Elizabeth Frothing Ham, a rich widow in need of company. Gold digging achieved, he began his quest to become a true aristocrat. As his first step, he thinks, hmm, all the rich guys I know are in positions of power, I should run for office. Now the town of Maldon wasn't much keen on appointing a bumbling second grade dropout, but after rejecting dozens of petitions sent in by Dexter, they eventually gave up and decided to just make some shit up, leading to Dexter becoming the official informer of Deer, tasking him with keeping logs on the local Deer population. And over statistics of Dozenbukse alike, Dexter ruled with an iron fist, which is very often like including what many had already known, that there weren't any Deer in Maldon, Massachusetts. Satisfied with his political career, Dexter then set his sights on greater financial ventures. So a little history in 1775, as part of our growing independence from Britain, the Continental Congress decided to establish their own currency, known as the Continental Dollar, real creative there. Then the Revolutionary War started, and it dawned on people that these pieces of paper wouldn't be very useful in a giant pile of wet tea and smoldering patriots, causing their value to do one of those horny, ego death spirals. Then the Congress did, you know, that stupid thing that every high schooler learns is stupid, not invading Russian winner, but the other one, practically making them worth less than their weight in paper and ink. And what you know, a good portion of the Continental Army was paid with these, so by the time the war ended, many veterans were left totally destitute. The aristocrats were like, well, these grassy eating ouintermenches did kind of give us a country, so whatever, we'll throw them a few cents to take this trash off their hands. Dexter was like, ooh, ooh, I'm a wealthman, I'm gonna do that too. And he spent the majority of his savings buying a boatload after boatload of the 1780s equivalent of blockbuster gift cards. By all accounts, this should have been his ruin, but by some stroke of luck, after the Constitution was ratified, the new government decided that they trade Continental's for Treasury bonds worth 1% of their face of value. Doesn't sound like much, but keep in mind, Dexter bought thousands of crates of bills for fractions of pennies of peace. So as buybacks began across the country, this stockpile appreciated massively in value, and this informer of Deer realized that for the first time, there were a lot of bucks in molded. But just because he was now a man of the upper crust doesn't mean he let it go to his head. Sure, he might have purchased the most luxurious chateau the money could buy, through daily Playboy Mansion style ragers and commissioned over 40 statues of America's greatest heroes, one of which was of himself, with a plaque calling him, quote, the greatest philosopher in the Western world. Despite his incredibly tacky displays of wealth, his contemptuous contemporary still saw him for the loud, illiterate ruby he was. So they started giving him deliberately awful investment tips in order to get him to bankrupt himself. One such piece of advice was that he should ship warming pans to the Caribbean. For those of you born after 1850, a warming pans this dish on a long pole that you fill up with hot coals to warm up your bed. Not much use in atropical paradigms, but Dexter was undeterred by such frivolous things as logic, when a head sent over 40,000 of them to the West Indies. When they arrived, the locals didn't really know what they were looking at and decided to use them as ladles for the sugar and molasses for fineries. And by the end of it, Dexter sold every single one at a markup of nearly 80%. Frustrated that their plan backfired, the elites then told him to literally carry cold a new castle, which is an old idiom used to describe a pointless task based off the fact that Newcastle was one of the world's biggest producers of coal. The only idiom's Dexter knew about all involved different animals shitting in the woods. So he took their word on good faith and went along with it. But by some divine providence, by the time the shipment arrived, the Newcastle coal miners had all gone on strike, and Dexter once again cleared the entire shipment with a hefty profit. He was like, man, I am so smart. By this point, he was pretty confident in his speculation skills, so he started making seemingly far-fetched ventures all by himself. One time, he had a bunch of straight cats rounded up for basically free, which sounds like heard in cats, but what do I know? And he sent him to the Caribbean where they were gobbled up and mass, not like eaten, but purchased to deal with all the red infestations. In another instance, he bought up just about every whale bone in Boston. And coincidentally, at the same time in France, men started wearing corsets too for some reason. Demand went way up, Dexter's laughing. Now from an outside perspective, at the end of the day, Dexter was a very shrewd merchant. So at this point in my research, I was like, wait a minute, is he smart? Then I learned about his life outside of business. Dexter considered himself extremely knowledgeable and just about every topic. Keywords considered himself. For example, he once stumbled upon a guy painting a sign to go along with the newly built statue of Jefferson. And when he saw that the sign called Jefferson, the writer of the Declaration of Independence, Dexter lost his freaking mind, and insisted that Jefferson did not pen the DOI, but rather the Constitution. Spoiler alert, not remotely true, he was in France at the time, and easy mistake to make today, sure. But this was only like 10 years after the fact. That's like someone today saying, Obama didn't kill Ben Laden, dumbass. That was Bill Clinton. Anyway, when the painter refused to change the inscription, Dexter started shooting at him with a long rifle until he complied. Real John Teal. Dexter made sure to surround himself with a requisite number of weirdos to maintain this level of delusion, one of which was Jonathan Plummer, a man who Dexter paid to be his poet laureate, writing only the most loud tutorials in his honor. Mind you, this wasn't just your run of the mill, Wyzen, and Wysen, and Wurt Smith. Jonathan sold fish for a living, and porn. He just kind of went along with the whole thing for the pocket change. Besides his entourage, Dexter occasionally spent time with the total guides known as his family. He had two children, whom the New England Historical Society describes as a half-mad drunk and a completely mad drunk respectively. And he couldn't stand his wife on a kind of a perceived constant nagging, to the point where he would tell guests he was unmarried, and that he just had a ghost in his house, just like, oh yeah, that's a seahag. You know, mansion built on some old Indian shipwreck or something. Timmy, please, I'm cold in my hands a rheumatic. Find it in your heart to light the fireplace for me? Yeah, plenty of that in hell, you banshee bitch. One day, in a massive stroke of ego, Dexter decided to fake his own death, complete with a lavish funeral service just to see who would show up. Lucky for him, about 3,000 people from all walks of life turned up. Though initially staying out of sight, he soon noticed that his wife wasn't crying. So in response, he jumped out and started hitting her upside the head with a cane, in front of everybody. But as his true mortality grew closer, Dexter knew he needed a legacy and decided to pen his memoirs, titled A Pickle for the Knowing Ones, which was basically just 20 pages of unhinged ranting about politics, religion, his wife, and whatever else came to mind. No punctuation, random capitalization, the most amazing spelling I've ever seen here, some excerpts. George Washington, Attitude, Philosopher, Tobacco, General, and this is all just from the first few lines. The entire book is written like this, and just like everything else the guy did, the things saw like fucking hotcakes. Why does anybody even try? The best part is that when he got complaints about the total lack of grammatical anything, in the second edition of the book, he put an extra page at the end full of nothing but punctuation marks, with a little note saying that anyone who felt like winding could just stick him wherever they wanted. Dexter died in 1806, and by and large, he probably should end it up in Davy Jones' locker. But given the circumstances, I imagine the big man upstairs dropped his big deck of mortal soul trading cars at just the right moment, letting him slip through the pearly gates undetected. And legend has it that to this day, if you pray to the name Timothy Dexter, it'll look upon you kindly and share his skills with you all. Wait a minute, share... ...skill. Ah! If you give happy house plans to try, I'm sure your dorm or apartment will start to show signs of non-inset life before you know it. Join the more than 7 million people already learning today with a special offer just for my viewers. While Skillshare is normally less than $10 a month, everyone who visits the link in the description can get two months of unlimited access to their 25,000 plus classes for absolutely free. So please, quit your public-micturition and get your private retuition today. Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Sam and Ella, and thank you for watching.