Alright, after months upon months of unrelenting pressure but use psychopaths pretending to be my characters on Twitter, I finally got a merch store. Let this be a lesson kids, with enough harassment you can achieve anything. Anyway, go check it out, or don't, whatever. Hey kids, if I learned anything from my middle school career, it's that what may seem like a good idea initially will often be remembered only as a foolish mistake. Here's a few pieces of technology from yesterday that have since fallen into total obscurity. So I've always believed that there's no point in having many small things when you can have one big thing. Why have many shrimp when you can have one lobster? Why drink many glasses of milk when you can eat one other? Why have many cheese it's when you can have one cheese them, patent pending? And why have many street lights when you can have one moonlight tower? These guys were real popular back in the 1880s and 90s, often standing at over 150 feet tall and illuminating several blocks from a single point. Not very well mind you, matter of fact they were so dim we didn't even have the conscience to just call them light towers, had to go and stick the moon on the front to be able to get their hopes up. But thanks to our good old friend the inverse square law, you still needed a fuck ton of light to pull this off. So they use incredibly harsh and UV emitting arc lights instead of incandescent bombs. All the light of the moon and all the vision damage of the sun, talk about a win-win. Sadly these beasts are fallen by the wayside over the past century or so, except for in Austin apparently. But they use friendly or mercury vapor lamps in them so they only get half points. Now anyone who's been around a baby long enough knows they always have a cloud of ghoulish stench hovering around them. Jeez Louise somebody better air out that musty little muskrat before grandma starts drooping again. You could stick them on the clothesline for a while but knowing that a little more on I'm sure you'd find a way to hurt themselves somehow. Introducing the baby cage. Finally city dwellers all across the nation have a wave unleashing their postnatal funk on the unsuspecting passerby below. These were invoked for a while before falling out of style a bit of a way into the 20th century. Because apparently society started dimming babies, more valuable than air conditioners. I don't really get it personally but this is also around the time we started putting lead in gasoline so it's probably for the best we kept them inside all day. Matter of fact it's my firm belief that without kids growing up breathing lead, there's no way pet rocks would have taken off in the 70s. Wow alienating baby boomers, he's so brave and controversial. Now in the days between the Great War and the not as great as still pretty alright war, people were trying to find efficient means of detecting an incoming air attack. They climbed their nation's tallest mountains to seek the wisdom of their greatest elders and the wise men said, hmm big ears. So that's what they did. These giant discs were known as acoustic mirrors and were designed to focus incoming sound over a 5 meter diameter into a single point. They were reasonably effective as listening devices. A few of them in Britain were able to pick up the sound of a plane from all the way across the English channel. Of course radar came along soon after rendering these things completely useless beyond looking brutalist as hell, for real instant album cover material right here. Ah one of the pet boys is pulling a Spanish inquisition on this poor wayward harlot. Huh just kidding. Despite the fact that this looks so very very much like a state of the out instrument of torture, it's actually just a beauty micrometer. Think those shoe size measure things at foot locker only instead of one primitive measurement. It records the entire topology of your face and skull at once. With this data, a trained cosmetologist would be able to pinpoint exactly what features of your head should be enhanced and reduced with makeup in order to achieve a maximum calculated attractiveness after you've paid for their services. Clearly this device must have been effective. After all, beauty is entirely objective. What? I had to be holder. Ha, check the name tag buddy. Apparently, the women didn't like being strapped into a bird cage and having their every minute flaw meticulously laid out in front of them. So this thing never really took off in the end. Next we have the Hume Lauf. This was a device made during World War II designed to let infantry shoot around corners. As like the Germans sat down and watched that part in Tom and Jerry where the conniving rat bends the gun barrel back at his adversary, they said, mine got it. They came in a variety of angles between 30 and 90 degrees and even came with a little periscope so you could see what you're shooting at. But as we all come to find out and we reach out a lessons, cartoons are the arbiters of deceit because these things would invariably break within the first couple hundred shots or so. And even when they did work, the rounds would fucking explode from the massive acceleration, turning a deadly bullet into an ineffectual spray of shrapnel. These are so ineffective that only the 30 degree model ever saw significant production beyond prototypes and even that was very limited. Say, you ever look at regular mouse traps and go, hmm, not enough property damage. We'll check this out. Patented in 1882, it's the revolver mouse trap brought to you by the makers of the snail trebuchet and the cockroach claimor. Thanks to the marvels of the modern era, all those tiresome hours of intense varmance land can be outsourced to one little gadget on the floor of your kid's playroom. Now when you hear a gunshot in the middle of the night, you can rest easy knowing that one way or the other, there's one less pest for you to deal with in the morning. Boom, 1850, steam locomotives are all the rage. You're in the transport business but all you can afford is a couple dumb horses. Sure, they move things from point A to point B almost as well at a fraction of the cost but your cool rail riding friends call you a whackass and it really hurt your feelers while if we got the invention for you, the impulseoria uses an ingenious system of treadmills to turn that horse to be beckoned into a force to be reckoned with. Sure, it's expensive as hell to make and limits your services entirely to railroads but just look at it. Instant pussy mopiel. Slap some rims in a spoiler on that your laughing. This machine is recorded at having a maximum output of 2-4 horse power which sounds about right and it didn't see much use outside of a couple exhibitions. Now if there's one hobby that people in the past enjoyed, it's smoking. Who boy did they like smoking? And with every great wholesome activity comes a million novelty items to go along with it. Everyone's seen the long cigarette but how about the really long cigarette? Want to smoke in the rain? Here you go. Going snorkeling? Hey, you know it's more important than oxygen? Nicketyn. But hey, I want to know the only thing better than a cigarette? Two cigarettes. You know what, fuck it. Have the whole pack. You earned it. Of course, if you're trying to cut back, you can always share with a friend. Aw, how heart burning. But you know, it's even more fun than addiction. High quality documentaries. That's why you should check out CuriosityStream. From the face behind the Discovery channel, CuriosityStream lets you stuff your little meetuses full of all the bizarre knowledge the world has to offer. And with over 2,400 titles, there's no way there isn't something that interests you here. Remember Secret Life of Pets? Trash movie. Turgent pros, stilted dialogue, pandering humor, and above all, highly unrealistic. On the other hand, the Secret Life of Dog is an absolute treasure. Did you know they turn their tongues into weird inside out ladles when they drink? Just one of the many fun facts found inside. Normally, full access to CuriosityStream only costs $2.99 a month or $20 a year, which is nothing that's like a McDonald's run every four months. But if you still have your doubts, you can get 30 days free if you sign up at curiositystream.com slash Sam Manella and use promo code Sam Manella during the sign-up process. Anyway, that's all for today. Until next time, I'm Sam Manella and check out this JPEG.