Hey kids, time to talk about more cases of stiff lifting from the days of your. If you haven't seen part 1 yet, go check it out. Or don't, I'm a YouTuber, not a cop, unfortunately. This first tale doesn't feature an entire dead body, but I still found it interesting enough to talk about. So one day in 2012, a priest was riding a train out of Italy when his back got stolen by a trio of thieves. But the bag was whatever normal personal possessions the guy happened to own, as well as a small vile containing the blood of none other than Pope John Paul II. So this begs the question, why did the priest have Pope blood in his bag? Well an important way that the Catholic Church honors saints and other venerated individuals is the keeping of relics. These relics are ranked in terms of how close they were to the person at hand. You got something that's tangentially related to a saint in any way? That's a third class relic. If it's a personal possession of a saint, it's second class. And as for first class relics, those typically consist of literal body parts and or fluids of a holy figure. Now for you youngsters out there, in 1981, the Pope got shot four times by some fascists having a bad day. People were like, holy shit, it's a Pope aside. Is that even a word? No, no, I'm okay. Oh. Say, who left all this first class relic lying around? So to this day, there are main three objects containing the fine aged Popeyejuus spilled that fateful afternoon. The vial was found a few hours later by police among the reads and grass near the station, which basically means the thieves took one look at it and were like, blood? I already make this myself. Lame. And toss it out without a second thought. Here's the thing though, that's not the only instance of old JP2 getting blood napped. In 2014, a similar relic was yonked from the Church of San Pietro de la Yenca in Italy, alongside a crucifix. The fact that these were the only items taken led to two prevailing theories. Some people thought that since John Paul II wasn't technically a saint yet, the relic's value would go way up once the man was actually canonized, so the thieves decided to take it now and resell it later. The other theory was way more popular with the media. After all, what used this Pope blood have other than satanic rituals? This story naturally got a lot of press, and the whole world just kind of assumed that Lucifer himself was said to return any day now. Eventually, the thieves confessed, so authorities came to the rehab facility they were staying at. But when questioned about the relic, they were like, wait what? Pope blood? Satan. Do you guys need to check in here too? Eventually, it was found in a rubbish bin on the facility grounds, which means once again, it was just casually tossed out as nonsense. You ever throw out Pope blood? Because apparently, multiple people have done that on separate occasions just in the past seven years. It doesn't end there, of course. In 2016, this happened a third time, when a piece of cloth of a John Paul fluid on it was taken from Colon Cathedral. I can't for the life of me find a follow-up to this story, which leads me to believe that they're just like, fuck it, Pope blood's more trouble than it's worth at this point. But if you guys can find some conclusion where it ended up, let me know below. Now our next story begins with a man named Carl Tansler, a German-born radiology technologist in early 20th century Florida. He looked kind of like Sigmund Freud except even more evil looking. On the inside, he was a pretty normal dude, other than the fact that he claimed to have visions throughout his life of some mysterious dark-haired girl. Anyway, in 1930, while working at the Marine Hospital in Key West, he met a young woman by the name of Maria Elena Miracordoios, called Elena for short. And he said, oh my god, that's a girl, from the visions I've been having. Yeah, shit, wait what? We were meant to meet today. We must be soulmates. What? Don't you have like a wife and two kids? Destiny! Oios was soon diagnosed with tuberculosis, which was considered fatal at the time, so naturally Carl decided to handle her treatment, going as far as convincing her family to let him visit their home every day. Except he was a radiologist, so even if there were reliable means to treat tuberculosis at the time, he definitely didn't have the credentials to do so. But whatever, this is the past we're talking about after all. That place was a shit show from start to finish, I'm not bad again on somebody's case for a little clerical error. In addition to whatever sals and tinctures and such, doctors gave to people back then, Tanslow showered her with gifts of clothes and jewelry. I know he meant well, but if I was bedridden with a terminal illness, I'd just be insulted. Wow, thanks, can't wait to show off this little number out on the town. Anyway, eventually Tanslow found that the time had come to reveal his true feelings. Elena, there's something I must confess. I...I'm deeply in love with you. I'm so glad you feel the same. Oios inevitably succumbed to the disease, leaving Tanslow heartbroken. He just wasn't ready to part ways with his pestilence riddled sweetheart, so he asked the family's permission to commission an above ground mausoleum for their daughter. And since this was the early 20th century, they said, ah, what a sweet, selfless man. I'm sure he'd never do this just so he could commit crimes against nature. Then he was like, oh yeah, by the way, could I have some of her hair too? Sure kind stranger, here's a bag of her hair we just had lying around for some fucking reason. Again, no red flags here. He went to visit her dwelling nearly every night for two years. Then finally one day he said, you know what kid, you're alright. Let's say, how's about we dishes must deal mausoleum and go back to my place. I'll take that as a yes. Aaaaah! So we took her home in a little red toy wagon, which is ridiculous, it makes me picture him skipping around Wilson to Mary Tune. Hey neighbor, now here's a riddle for all you intellectuals out there. What do a dead body and a used PT crews are having common? Sure they both taste terrible and you never want to be seen in public with one. Most importantly though, they're a depreciating asset. But hey, that didn't stop all gnarly Carly from spruce and her up anyway he could. Wiring her bones back together with coat hangers, replacing her skin with wax and silk, making a wig out of that bag of hair from earlier, and soaking the body in massive amounts of perfume and disinfectants for obvious reasons. He claimed to have been instructed to do all this by Elena's spirit, which he would apparently talk to frequently. He also did, you know, that thing eccentric loners do with dead ladies in their house, but we won't talk about that. This went on for seven years, seven hot and humid Florida years, until 1940 when Elena's sister saw him dancing with some lady through the curtains. She's like, aww how cute, I'm glad that old bag of lentils has finally found love. Walks in, comes to find out, it's a fucking dead sister. So the cops come, but there isn't any conclusive evidence of any flirting and flander in with the body, so the only crime Carl could have been charged with was grave robbing. Except the statute of limitations was already up by the time he was found out, so they just took the body, tipped their hats and went on the merry way. Tansler still missed Elena dearly, but since he couldn't have her cadaver, he crafted a crude homemade effigy of the lady, which he lived with for the rest of his life. Here's the part that really gets me though. He apparently went back to live with his estranged wife once the jig was up. Just like hey babe, I know we haven't talked since the whole corpse thing, but I've been having trouble making rent, do you think I can come crash for a while? Sure come right in, I'll take your coats. Would you and the demented life size replica of your long dead lover that you left me for like a cup of tea? I'd like one, none for her though, it goes right through her. Of course I'm making all this out to be a horrifying thing for the goofs and gaffes of it, but at the time a lot of people read the news stories about Tansler, and many actually sympathize with the man. They saw him as the distraught hapless romantic that he saw himself as. You know why they had that compassion? Because they listened. Say, what would the world look like if we all listened more? Sponsor time, listening to audiobooks inspires us, motivates us, even brings us closer, and there's no better place to listen than audible. But what should you listen to you ask? After all there's so many options that it's almost overwhelming. Well normally I tell you to go listen to my book, but unfortunately I've never written a book, so instead, how about the Necro Namakon? That's right. The Necro Namakon is on audible. Now you too can learn exactly how to put that Pope blood in the backseat to use on your way to work. Tie in, in all seriousness, a novel really worth checking out is Edwin Abbott's flatland. A book about life in an entirely two-dimensional universe, and it is a trip. Trust me. You can get your first audiobook free along with two selected audible original titles and exclusive fitness programs when you start your 30-day trial. Just visit audible.com slash Saminella or text Saminella to 500-500 to get started. Again, go to audible.com slash S-A-M-O-N-E-L-L-A or text S-A-M-O-N-E-L-L-A to try audible for free. Link in the description. Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Saminella and thank you for watching.