Thanks to Dashlane for sponsoring this video. Hey kids, the human spirit is a very powerful thing. With the right temperament, it can allow us to survive things you wouldn't believe. However, some people are stronger than others. For example, I've never so much has broken a bone in my life. Haven't been hospitalized since that first time 20 years ago. So I'm like 90% certain, if I'm ever forced to dance with death, my soul's pushing out to the great beyond first thing. On the other end of the spectrum, you got guys like Phineas Gage. Gage was a 25 year old railroad worker in mid 19th century Vermont. He and his crew were busy gang blasting rock to prepare the road bid for a newly planned route. This involves a big hole being drilled into the ground, filled with gunpowder, and packed down using a tamping iron. Well, being the gentleman in scholar that he is, Gage decides to lean forward and look directly into the hole, right? Now, the first world of gun safety is to never look down the front of a gun. Everyone knows that. Gage basically just turned the earth into a gun and decided to put his head right in front of its gaping barrel. And wouldn't you know it, the powder goes off. The tamping iron shoots up into his cheek, moses right on through his fricking brain, and goes soaring out the other side, landing 80 feet away, all smeared with blood and thought juice. Now, by and large, Gage should have dropped it immediately and been thrown into ravine for his blatant disregard for OSHA regulations, and that would have been the end of it. But I guess Shiva Gotama Christchand, the one true god, decided Gage still had unfinished business down here on shit out of luck 3. Because after a few minutes of twitching on the ground, he got up, looked around and thought, well, now's a good time as any for my yearly checkup. According to the doctor he went to, while Gage was retelling the story of what happened, he suddenly started vomiting all over the place, the effort of which, and I quote, pushed out about half the teacup full of the brain, which fell upon the floor. He didn't say what they did with it after, I'm picturing his dog just running over and immediately scarfing it down, then being plagued with the memories of a human railroad worker for the rest of his life. And the months following, Gage made a near complete recovery, physically anyway. He did lose a bit of his mind, which caused him to lose his mind a bit. Whereas Gage was once an upstanding, hardworking citizen, his untimely brain blast transformed him into an angry, incoherent, drunkard, mumbling quote, the grossest profanity whenever he deemed fit, and showing little to no regard for human life, whatsoever. Naturally, he was fired from his job at the railroad, so Gage ended up wandering the earth, earning money anyway he could. For a while, he hung out at Barnum's American Museum in New York City, basically making an exhibit of himself standing there with a tamping iron like, hi, this went through my brain. Bye! He later had a stint as a farm hand in California and a stage coach driver in Chile, which I don't know who let the guy with severe brain trauma and no depth perception drive a vehicle, but whatever. Over time, he actually became a lot more functional until finally 10 years later when his brain remembered, oh yeah, I shouldn't exist, leading to Gage having a bunch of seizures and dying at age 36. A similar story happened with one Ron Hunt in 2003. He was an American construction worker who was drilling a hole above his head. When the latter he was standing on the side to give way, leading to Hunt landing face first on a 1.5 inch auger drill bit. The drill went straight through his left eye and out the back of his skull. To give you a reference of what 1.5 inches of drill looks like, here's the actual x-ray that doctors took when Hunt arrived at the hospital. Miraculously, the drill ended up just kind of pushing his brain out of the way, leading to no cognitive impairment whatsoever. Matter of fact, Hunt was perfectly lucid while the doctors tried to figure out the best way to take the thing out of his head. Initially they considered cutting it out, but that would have been too messy. So eventually they decided to literally just unscrew it from his head, like, alright hold him still now. Oh you fucking mouth, lefty Lucy, does that mean the top or the bottom? D-what? It's a rotating circle. And, okay you hold on for one sec. Look, one way the top goes left, one way the bottom. So which? D-clearly the one on top. Why? Tell me why? Why clearly? Same reason North is up on the map is just common practice. Alright well sorry for not subscribing to Eurocentric Propaganda, Dan, you soggy cunt. Anyway what were you doing? If you think Hunt was just a little too lucky with his incident, don't worry. According to Snopes, who is self-employed and didn't have insurance. So while the accident didn't ruin his life, you can sleep easy knowing the hundreds of thousands of dollars of medical bills and rehabilitation costs probably did. Our next tale revolves around Greg Rasmussen, a British born animal conservationist who was studying wildlife in Zimbabwe. One day he got reports of a highly endangered rhino being spotted in the area. So Greg took to the skies in a single passenger plane to track the beast. Fate was looking down at Greg that day, and after a moment it said, no, rhino must die. And a huge gust of wind came out of nowhere, sending Greg into a tailspin, crash landing right in the middle of the untamed African bush. When Greg woke up he found that his legs looked like used up tubes of toothpaste, so he was essentially trapped right where he was. Arguably worse than that was the fact that Greg was dehydrated before he even took off, hoping to get water at his destination. And just when things looked like they couldn't get any worse, they got worse. A group of elephants showed up and started harassing and straight up stampeding at Greg. With no other option, he starts banging on the wreckage as hard as he could. The elephants went, and decided to leave him alone. He was also approached by a pack of hyenas and actual lionesses on the hunt, but fortunately animals are all morons, so the same trick worked on them too. Greg spent an entire day and night pinned under the wreckage, fighting off wild life, severe dehydration, and extreme temperatures before finally being rescued the next morning. Incredibly, after over 100 operations, doctors managed to get Greg's legies up and running again. Although he was now 3 inches shorter, which is probably for the best, because now they can just stick the keys to the plane on top of the fridge, so he never has another incident like this again. So more of the story, us humans are resilient creatures who will do anything in our power to survive. And just as Greg was moose and banged on his destroyed plane to ward off predators in Zimbabwe, you should bang on your keyboard right now to ward off predators online. With Dashlane, in this day and age, cybersecurity and privacy have never been more important, and only a select few people have the time, energy, and know-how to keep their data as safe as humanly possible. With Dashlane, you can take all your passwords and auto-fill data across all your devices and use the power of encryption to keep them out of the hands of lowly hackers, PC, Mac, iOS, Android, Chrome, Safari, Abicus, doesn't matter. Dashlane's got your back. No, Dashlane does not offer services for rudimentary mechanical calculators. Something especially cool is that you can actually change your passwords right in Dashlane without that whole chain of, okay, reset. Which email? Who knows? What's my favorite beverage? Well, I know 14-year-old me didn't say whiskey sour, so I get some screwed. Dashlane Premium even comes with a VPN, so now you can take full advantage of unseguired Wi-Fi without your NeoPets ever falling into the greasy hands of the low-lifes that comfort in. So please, go to Dashlane.com slash Samanella to try Dashlane for free today. Also, the first 200 people to use the promo code Samanella will get 10% off their Dashlane Premium subscription. That's all for today. Till next time, I'm Samanella, and thank you for watching. Gage was a 25-year-old Railroad worker. Where would? Where would? Where did hee.