This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids, John Wilkes Booth, Lee Harvey Oswald, Hitler. All people who gained massive notoriety by killing one of history's famous leaders. But there are two Americans who committed an equally heinous crime as these three, yet their stories are seldom remembered, mostly because nobody really cares about the presidents they killed. Originally I was going to talk about both of them, but the video ended up being way too long. So today we'll just stick to uh, this one I guess. Charles J. Gito was a pretty silly guy, and to understand how a guy could be so silly, he got to start with his youth. Gito was born in Freport, Illinois in 1841. His mom had post-partum psychosis and died when he was seven, alongside three of his five siblings. His dad, meanwhile, was mega-religious and made a big point at him in stealing those values in his son. Often physically, this influenced molded Charles into a boy who sought nothing short of total approval from others, and who would react very harshly to Eddie criticism levied upon him. As a teen, he moved to Ann Harbor, Michigan for high school. He tried to get into the University of Michigan, but he goofed on the entrance exam, so he did what anyone in his situation would do and said, well, so much for real life, I'm going to join a commu. Specifically, he became part of the Onida community in New York. In some aspects, this place was a pretty run-of-the-mill religious fellowship, from each according to their ability, to each according to their need, Yadayada, but there are a couple of things that made it special. First off, they followed a doctrine known as Christian perfectionism, whereby everyone would strive to live their lives completely free of sin and reach a divine level of perfection while still on earth. Now, this isn't really unique to Onida, but whereas most people would achieve this through staunch discipline and careful self-reflection, these guys would just get together and take turns roasting the shit out of each and every member over any minute flaw they could possibly have. Real great for the psyche. They also practiced what was basically an early form of eugenics, where aspiring parents would have to submit an application and be judged by the committee on their moral and spiritual fortitude. If they were allowed to mate, children would be separated from the mom about a year after birth and raised communally in the children's wing. After all, wouldn't one any of those hopelessly flawed toddlers to think they're deserving of any affection whatsoever? Onida also believed in what they called free love, which meant that anyone could bang anyone at any time, as long as they kept it head or rope. An exclusive relationship of any kind were actually frowned upon, which seems like kind of a weird habit for people trying to 100% fc this whole Christianity thing, but whatever. But wait, you're saying, how can you have selective breeding at the same time as extremely unselective breeding? Aha, see that's where male continents come in. Under this rule, a pair could go at it for as long as they wanted, with the caveat that the dudes not allowed to not pull out or otherwise. That way, it's not a sin. After all, as the Bible says, if the dick don't spit, you must acquit. Paradoxically, this such rule existed for the women. In fact, not only did the commune believe in female orgasms, they actually prioritize them, which is like unheard of in the 19th century. They'd even have the middle age women of the society train the teen boys in the yard of holding in the old pelvic sneeze. That way, there wouldn't be any chance of conception in case the guy goofs up his first few tries. So anyway, young Gito joins it's whole thing, and endured countless blows to his massive yet fragile ego, thinking he's at least going to get a piece of this communal action. Except, the criticism towards him wasn't just a formality like it was for others. Everyone there genuinely fucking hated him, on account of the fact that he was a raving neurotic narcissist. He never caught a single piece of this allegedly free love, and after a while, they all started calling him Charles Get Out, in the hopes that he'd leave. This is real. And after five long years of this abuse, Gito finally got the hint and moved to New Jersey. He tried starting a newspaper themed around the O'Nighta religion called the Daily Theocrat, except nobody cared, so that failed. He went back to O'Nighta and tried to sue the place in order to get back pay for all his voluntary unpaid labor while living there. But apparently, I'm mad but hurt isn't a valveries and for prosecution, so that went nowhere. Finally said, well, when your devotion to God has failed you, there's only one path in life left. Time to become a lawyer. He managed to pass an examination, he gained admission to the Illinois Bar, and subsequently joined a law firm in Chicago, the age of 27, where he met his soon to be wife, one and he bun. Of course, Gito never really got to be a lawyer, he only argued in one actual court case. Most of his time was spent doing bill collection for random clients. This job gave him insight into how debtors think and operate, which allowed him to turn into quite the con man, dodging bills whenever and wherever he saw the opportunity. Even on the job, he'd frequently charge exorbitant contingency fees after the fact, upwards of 75%. And sometimes he'd just keep it all and completely ghost his clients. After all, what are they going to do? Send another bill collector? Well, turns out they did, so Gito and his wife fled to New York. Here he ditched law and started getting into politics. Specifically, he wrote and delivered a speech in favor of Horus Greeley, the 1872 Democratic presidential candidate. And he somehow got it in his head that if Greeley won, his campaign would be so greatly indebted to him that they'd fulfill his desires to be the minister of chili, as though a total rander like him could just, you know, name a job and it would be his. In reality, the speech was an incoherent mess heard by next to no one and Greeley lost by a landslide. As the years passed, Annie got real sick of living life on the run with a broken spit, and Charles was none too keen on her weighing him down either. But back in the day, you couldn't just divorce someone willy nilly, you needed a valid reason for it. So Charles concocted the brilliant scheme of banging a prostitute and then having her testify in court. The plan worked with the pair successfully divorcing in 1874, and the only downside was syphilis. Whoops, Gito started dabbling in theology again around this time. He published a book called The Truth, which was almost entirely plagiarized directly from John Neuyes, the founder of the United Community. But despite being a man of God, Gito was still very much a two-time environment and moved frequently in the dead of night to keep collectors off his tail. His brother caught wind of this and wrote him a letter, basically saying, hey, uh, maybe you should pay your bills now and then so you can be, you know, a functioning member of society. To which Charles replied, and I quote, find seven dollars enclosed, stick it up your bunghole and wipe your nose on it, and that will remind you of the estimation in which you are held by Charles J. Gito. God damn, and to his own brother, the madman. Soon after he got arrested, bailed out by a sister, lived with her for a few months, attacked her with an axe. Yeah, went to DC, rambled about religion to anyone who would listen, moved to Boston. God in a boat accident where everyone in his boat was fine, but everyone in the other one fucking died. Took this as a sign from God, moved back to New York and got back into politics in 1880, this time as a Republican. During this campaign, there were two main factions of Republicans, known as the stalwarts in the half breeds, which sounds like some Tolkien shit, which we had names like that today. Now Gito considered himself a stalwart, and in a similar vein to his 1872 venture, he wrote a speech to promote stalwart candidate Ulysses S. Grant, who was shooting for his third term. But before I got a chance to deliver this speech, one James A. Garfield took the candidate to see completely out of nowhere, beating out both factions single-handedly. He was like rats, how am I going to get power handed to me now? So he literally just scribbled out all the references that he'd grant and replaced them with Garfield, and was like, yep, not all do it. He read this speech all of twice, along with handing out copies to the Republican National Committee. In reality, this really didn't accomplish much, but when Garfield managed to win the election, Gito was like, yes, that was entirely me. Garfield is in my supreme debt, as God is my witness. He shall make me a consulate in Vienna or Paris, or someplace cool like that. He went to DC to await his inevitable appointment, but obviously nothing happened, so he started writing letters. A lot of letters. When that didn't work, he started actually stalking both Garfield and the Secretary of State, James Blaine, intercepting them in hotel lobbies just being like, oh hey, yeah, it's me, the sole person responsible for your success. Say, how about a consulship? Ah, alright, you'll get back to me, I get it. Whoa, haha, what a coincidence. Me again. How's that consulship coming? At first they simply ignored him, but eventually Blaine snapped, screaming, never speak to me again on the Paris consulship as long as you live. Damn you Garfield! I sense a disturbance in the force. Maybe daylight savings just made Monday an hour longer. While Garfield, that was quite the wise crack. It's amazing how you managed to keep things fresh year after year. Burnin' hell, beige dog. At this point, Gito completely renounced any faith in the current administration, and after a lifetime of cloud chasing met only with disappointment, he decided his only option was straight up going postal. He convinced himself that it was now God's will to remove Garfield from this mortal plane, in order to put his stalwart vice president Chester Allen Arthur into power. When he went to Birovolver, he was given the choice between a wood grip and an ivory grip. He went with the ivory one for no other reason than he thought it would look cooler in a museum, and on July 2nd, 1881, he ambushed Garfield at the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad station, shooting him twice in the back and mortally wounding him, all because he wouldn't give him a job. Garfield managed to hang on for 11 weeks before finally dying, which sounds like hell. Today's modern physicians actually believe that Garfield could have easily survived the incident if it weren't for doctors digging through with unsanitized tools. Hey, modern medicine. Thanks for not being worse than literally no medicine. It means a lot. But that didn't stop Gito from being formally charged with murder. And that's exactly what he wanted. Matter of fact, Gito was over the moon, taking his new nationwide infamy as the fame he always deserved. His trial was just bananas, with Gito hurling obscenities that just about everyone there, including his own defense team, and formatting his testimony as an epic poem which he recited in full. He even dictated an autobiography to the New York Herald, which, get this, he ended with a personal ad for a nice Christian lady under 30 years of age. What a baller. When the guilty verdict was read, he called everybody there low consummate Jackasses, and on June 30th, 1882, Gito smiled and waived to his adoring fans as he was walked to the gallows, where he recited a repetitive, deranged poem he wrote that morning, which was performed in a high pitched false set of voice, since it was written in the point of view of a child. He asked for a full orchestra to play during the reading, which I don't have to tell you that one nowhere. And promptly thereafter, he was hung. When the gallows dropped, people were probably like, oh Jesus, it's finally over. I just came here for a nice little execution. They subject me to all that. Oh, my money back, so it just goes to show. You can't always get what you want. Unless that thing is getting everyone to hate you, that's extraordinarily easy. But for everything else, you're gonna need a combination of hard work and know-how. While the former must ultimately come from within, there's plenty of resources out there for the latter. The best of which is a seldom talked about little startup called Skillshare. Sponsored time, Skillshare is an online learning community with over 25,000 classes in design, business, technology, and more. Premium membership gives you unlimited access to high-quality classes on must-know topics so you can improve your skills, unlock new opportunities, and do the work you love. A wise philosopher once said that the most fulfilling pursuit in life is to get to know one's self. Now I just made that up. Sounds legit though, right? Now, my fullness and meditation are all well and good. But how about drawing a self-discovery? Sounds hokey, but I can tell you that I've certainly learned a lot about myself over the years doing this thing. So I'm sure you will too. Join the more than 7 million people already learning on Skillshare today with a special offer just for my viewers. Everyone who visits the link in the description can get two months of unlimited access to the 25,000 plus classes on Skillshare for absolutely free. So please, release that tension and get that comprehension today. Anyway, that's all for today. Until next time, I'm Sam and Ella, SXXXX, and I hope and I hope.