This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids, as we all know, the evolution of species is an incredible process, driven by little more than the random chance that certain mutations may happen to provide a practical advantage in a creature's environment. And as a result, there's a lot of things out there that look super dumb once you strip back a few layers. Here's the top 10 worst animal skeletons of all time. So first and foremost, I'd like to set a little debate I've been seeing floating around the past few weeks. Yes, penguins do, in fact, have knees. But in order to hide full-grown legs into one plump cylinder, you gotta have a little skeletal trickery on your side. You guys ever do wall sits and gym class or elsewhere? One of the most torturous exercises out there. I now feel even worse for penguins, because not only did they have to do with living in a frigid, black and white hellscape, the most hostile environment known to men second only to the vacuum of space, all the while constantly pursued by ravenous bloodthirsty sea dogs. But, they're also secretly doing wall sits their entire life. Quick side note, in Mander, and the word for penguin consists of the characters for business goose, which is fucking hilarious like one day a goose put on a suit and said, today is time to make a name for myself, honk. This next guy is known as Parsons Chameleon, found in the more remote regions of Madagascar. Notice the Fleshy protuberances around its nose area turns out not Fleshy, not even remotely Fleshy, not even one Fleshy. Instead, it just has a skull forever frozen in time in the middle of exploding, like it sneezed right in the middle of God shaping it at a clay and he was just like, ah whatever, it's a feature now. So for that, this rough headed reptilian gets number 9. Normally I would have ranked it higher, but that's a dope tale, so he gets some pity points. Next is the Pufferfish. So for most of my life, I've pictured Pufferfish is just not having any bones. I know it doesn't really make sense, but neither does them turning into a balloon like a goddamn cartoon. Turns out, in their normal state, they actually look like this. And when they inflate, those concentric rings of spines slide outwards past one another to cover the full area, like the aperture of a camera lens expanding to cover the full frame of the fish. The sheer ingenuity of this design has shattered my childhood dream of real life balloon animals, which is earned the Pufferfish the number 8 spot on this list. Now if you've gotten around a certain zoo logical circles, you've been shown this skull and been told, ah yes, that comes from the dwarf elephant. Oh, you've never seen one? That's because they're extinct. And that thing in the middle? Ah yes, nothing more than the nose hole to which the trunk connects. However, if you're a rational, free thinking adult like me, you can look past the lies spoon-fed you by Nat Geo and other liberal media outlets and see this for what it is. A Cyclops. Next is the Orca, otherwise known as the Killer Whale, the Panda Torpedo, or the SeaWorld Slave. It's skeleton is fairly normal at first glance, but check out this little thing under here. That little bony blip is actually all that remains of the legs and pelvis of the Orca from when it evolved from land mammals. Personally, I think that's highly disrespectful to their ancestors, like they could have taken this seal route and used those legs for good in the water. But instead, these sea cowards said, no thanks, we're gonna undo all that evolution and just be bigger, smarter, warmer fish again. But hey, we'll keep this little piece of nothing just to remember you guys by. Truthfully, I could have chosen almost any citation to pick on for this, but the Orca's face also reminds me of SCP-682, which is the most OP-overrated shit out there, so he gets the number 6 spot. Moving on, now bear with me here. In every other mammal on earth, the K-90th point downward from the gum to the mouth, you know, like a tooth. For this guy, known as the Babarusa, said, and decided to have them grow up through the entirety of its fucking snooze, and out the other end, which is the most nonsensical thing I've ever seen. Like, hmm, toenails out the front? How cliche. Let's make them go through the whole foot instead. Look, now I can kick good behind me. That's not all though. These tasks also keep growing for the creature's entire life, which isn't a problem in and of itself, right? Rodents, they keep chewing stuff to wear them down. Alligators, they just let them fall out now, and then. But the Babarusa is like, pfff, I'll just nut in a ladypeg along before this becomes an issue. So if it lives long enough, the teeth can curve right on around and slowly bore into the thing's face, like built in Chinese bamboo torture. And occasionally, they can end up actually piercing the skull and shish-cubbbing the brain. Now, some people might say that this doesn't belong on this list, given that teeth aren't technically bones. And to those people, kids, we say, each shit and die. Next, we have the octopus. The octopus skeleton is so bad that it doesn't even exist. Sure, they got this little thing in the middle, but that doesn't count. That's just Kighton. And yeah, they can get in a jar or whatever, but at what cost? At the animal picnics, the crowd shots blizzshund the spineless freak, and at the animal wheelbarrow races, with nothing to grab hold of, the cephalopod holds a solitary visual at the starting line, and low, the octopus wins not, but a participant medal at the Grand Prix, and the number 4 spot on this list. Moving on, here's the skeleton of a fruit bat. Now, not a big deal to us regular folk, but imagine if humans had no context of bats and they dug this thing up. Like, class archaeologists have recently found these fossilized remains, and using modern technology, we can see exactly what it would have looked like back when it was alive. This abominable creature is known only to scientists as finger boy, and is theorized to have fed upon fruit, insects, and the dreams of orphans, which it would siphon out from the ears of the errant little waves so we'll stay slumbered. By the way, if you google image bat skeleton, like more than half of them have the ears built in, just like, hmm, I feel the extraordinarily bat-like wings and figure of our decoration are much too subtle for our consumers, better slap these on. At number 2, we have the anti-eater. From its oboe-like skull to its gorilla fist in hands, one can only wonder who let this creature exist. Fun fact, if you take the anti-eater skull and blow into its nose, it plays a beautiful song recounting the animals entire life, and then security escorts you out of the museum. Looking at this, I can only pose the question asked for generations long before my own. That being, why the long face. Before we get to the number 1 spot, here's a few honorable mentions. The Wolf Eel, the ostrich, this human cat hybrid I found on a tabloid site. And of course, the mermaid. So at our number 1 spot, we have... this creature. That's supposed to be a mirror. I know most of you can't see yourself in it on a kind of filthy Doritos-mere screen, so just take my word for it. So it's wrong with humans, you ask, well a lot of things, but for now let's stick to the skeleton. First off, these bones right here, these are known as the meta-tarsals. All part of the foot, right? No, that's a bunch of primate propaganda. And most other groups of land mammals, what we'd consider our angles is actually the quote unquote knee of the animal. Thanks a lot walking up right? Also, it's estimated that around 80% of people will experience chronic back pain at some point in their life. Thanks a lot walking up right? Lastly, probably something you've heard about at some point are skull to pelvis ratio. For most animals, giving birth, not a big deal. Small heads, white hips, whee, muzzle tof. But check out the big brain on bread. Throws a real monkey wrench in the works there. For a while, it led to some problems, till those extra brains figured out how to work around it. So I guess you win this round humans, but that doesn't stop you from also winning the number one spot on the worst skeletons of all time. But hey, just because you'll forever be flawed on the inside doesn't mean you can't improve yourself on the outside. That's why you need to try Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community with over 25,000 classes in design, business, technology, and more. Premium membership gives you unlimited access to high quality classes on must-know topics, so you can improve your skills, unlock new opportunities, and do the work you love. For all my life, I thought I knew how to make a grilled cheese, then I saw this class, and I realized I didn't. Now I do again, but those few minutes between seeing the thumbnail and finishing the course were a dark time in my life. But let's say you don't like grilled cheese. Well, you must be either vegan or dead, and either way, you probably smell terrible. What better way to soak up that earthy mustonier home than with a hand-selected houseplant known to improve air quality? You can even put googly eyes on it. Aw, it's like I have a friend. Join the more than 7 million people already learning on Skillshare today with a special offer just for my viewers. Everyone who visits the link in the description can get two months of unlimited access to the 25,000 plus classes on Skillshare for absolutely free. So please, put down that bone broth and start sifting some brain juice today. Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Sam and Ella, and I'm still scared of Swine flu.