This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids, hope you had yourself a merry little whatever. I know I did. What do you like best about the holiday experience? My personal favorite part is where we systemically brainwash children into thinking they're supernatural beings who judge their every move and then invade their house at night. Now everyone knows Santa, good old Saint Nick, old father Christmas old Christopher Cringle, old elfias prime slayer of elk and bringer of xboxes. And you've probably heard of some other characters somewhere too. Guys like Krampus, Bell Sniggle, Charlie Brown, G-Zion Ping. Well today I want to show you guys some more obscure ull type beings from different cultures all across the globe. But mostly Europe. Now this first creature's name comes from the Welsh. As a matter of moral principle, I personally don't formally recognise the Welsh language. Maybe someday they'll figure out how dubious and wise work, then it'll be a different story. But for the time being, you'll have to excuse me for not condoning bullshit like this. So the thing allegedly called Maddie Lleid is in a true mythical creature per se, but more so a tradition carried out for at least the past few centuries in South Wales. No I mean old South Wales. This is how it works. Every holiday season, the village rap scallion will take a horses skull and affix it to the end of a pole. Kind of like one of these things except, you know, awful. The skull is typically decorated in some way and sometimes they put in a lever so you can make the mouth move on its own. Then a white sheet is draped over the pole and it's holder. Thus giving the illusion that famine himself has come to destroy all your figgy pudding. From here one would think that the nightly festivities would include welching your trousers and repenting for a lifetime of non-unist, but no it gets better. You know that whole mouth moving thing? Turns out that's not just for taking wild snaps at the faces of innocent children. The Maddie Lleid and its party of caretakers will go around to random houses and sing a song about wanting to be let inside. The inhabitants are then expected to sing back with excuses as to why they don't want this abomination in their home. All in rhyme of course. This goes back and forth until either the Maddie Lleid gives up or the parties invite it in. At which point they get to raid your pantry and drink all your beer. So if you ever find yourself rap battling a horse skull in south Wales, don't panic. It's normal I guess. Next we have Froupeyrsta, a witch-like being said to visit during the holidays in the Alpine regions of Germany and Austria. Depictions of Perstak can range anywhere between beautiful woman and whatever the hell this is, but usually they fall somewhere in between. She's also sometimes shown with his big weird floppy goose foot. That's because she's apparently real into spinning. Not the two-foot kind though, the one-foot kind. It's said that this delightful spencer pays a visit to all the little wiener schnitzels on the twelfth night of Christmas. If you were well behaved and hardworking this year, she might leave you a small silver coin in your shoe. How kind? But if you've been an inattentive young lady and didn't spin all your flacks that year, Perstak will trample all your half-woven fibers as punishment and you'll say, we're flacks, but okay, fucking cut that out, Jesus. Then there's the stuff Perstak considers especially naughty, which can vary depending on who you ask. If you left your house a mess or you didn't leave out the traditional bowl of porridge, or maybe you didn't eat your ceremonial fishing gruel on feast day, that's when you've been a real goober. As recompense, she'll rip out your fucking intestines through your abdominal wall and then stuff your empty body cavity with pebbles and straw until you're just as plump as when she started. Sayana, you went some you lose some. Nobody knows what she does with your freshly harvested innards after she leaves. But being that she lives in the mountains and has an obsession with thread making, I think we can all infer the obvious truth. Of course, no discussion of folklore of any kind can truly be complete without taking a look at Iceland. Between the centuries of isolation and the volcanic fumes constantly spelling out over the countryside, it's no wonder that they're one of the world's biggest exporters of wack-ass mythology. Seriously, according to 1998 survey, over 54% of Icelandic citizens said they believed in elves. Let me repeat that just so we're all clear. In 1998, the majority of the population of Iceland said they believed in elves, and a very large portion probably still does today. As such, the cast of characters said to visit during the holiday season over there is naturally quite diverse. The main line up consists of the family pictured here. This is the leader of the bunch, a troll, goblin, ogreish-type lady named Grilla. Grilla? Just fucking eats kids. That's it. She said to prefer the naughty ones, but as long as it's small and made out of kid, she's game, then you got her husband Le Palje, who lives with her in her cave, generally considered to be equally ogreish. When the holidays roll around, if there's no suit in your fireplace, he'll reward you with a pickled herring. But if it's dirty, he'll scoop up the ash and dump it in your bed. No, I just messed with you. None of that's true. He also just eats children. The couple also has a giant cat called this. The cat's main concern is whether or not a person received new clothes for Christmas. Pretty hypocritical considering it walks around naked all the time, but whatever. Anyway, if you got new clothes, then good for you. You got new clothes. On the other hand, if you didn't get any, well uh, can, can uh, can you guess what he does? You want to take a wild stab? Oh yeah, that's uh, that's exactly right. He fucking eats ya. Children, adults, doesn't matter. He'll even bore your dog, he doesn't care. Finally, you got the best of the bunch. The 13 UL LADS, each of which visits on a different day, leading up to Christmas. They're kind of like the Seven Dwarves, but whereas those guys are jolly and helpful and stupid shit like that, the only real goal of the UL LADS is to harass and inconvenience people as much as possible, and each one has a unique way that they go about doing that. I'm gonna go through all 13. Now please remember, I am making none of this up. I'm not even gonna try to say the Icelandic name, so I'll just give you guys the English translations, which are very apt by the way. First, he got sheep coat clawed, who goes around harassing sheep, but is easy to catch on account of his peg legs. Then there's gully gulk, who hides in gullies to steal milk from your cows. There's stubby, he's real short, he eats the leftover crust out of pie pants. This one's called spoon liquor, he likes spoons. He's also incredibly thin on account of malnutrition for some reason. There's pot scraper, he scrapes pots, and bowl liquor, who's like spoon liquor. The key difference here being that he likes bowls. He got door slammer, who slams doors in the middle of the night, and then skier gobbler, who gobbles up all your skier, which is like a Nordic yogurt type thing. Whoa, who's that up in the rafters? It's sausage swiper of course, here to swipe your sausages. And who's that in the windows? You bet your ass is window peeper, look at him peep, and who could forget our favorite? Doorway sniffer, who sniffs your doorway with his giant freakish nose to seek out breads. There's meat hook, he steals your meat with a hook, and finally, candle stealer, who fuckin' you get the picture. So if you know some kids who just won't behave, maybe it's time to take a page out of Iceland's book come next holiday season. Now remember, your friend dressed up as Grilla doesn't have to actually eat the kids. Just bite him a couple times, that'll be enough. Anyway, with New Year's right around the corner, the time comes to make our New Year's resolutions, while you may spend New Year's Eve getting hella turned. Why not spend New Year's Day getting hella learned? You can do just that with Skillshare.org. Skillshare is an online learning community with over 25,000 classes in design, business technology, and more. Premium membership gives you unlimited access to high quality classes on must-know topics, so you can improve your skills, unlock new opportunities, and do the work you love. Beyond technical skills, there's plenty of lifestyle type stuff on here that'd be perfect for building 2019 you. Check this one out. Beat procrastination once and for all. Maybe if I had taken this course, this video would have been out, you know, before Christmas. Do you speak any other languages? Well, you could. Believe me, I get a lot of joy of shoving my froncée down other people's threats. If you try one of these guys on for size, you could be doing the same in no time. Join the millions of students already learning on Skillshare today, with a special offer just for my viewers. The first 500 people who visit the link in the description will get two months of unlimited access to the 25,000 plus classes on Skillshare for absolutely free. What are you waiting for? Go! Don't just stare at me with your glassy eyes, people are taking them already. Go hurry, run! Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Sam Inella and thank you for watching. Nah, but seriously, fuck Swift the Cockatail. Look at this ugly tree-sniffing idiot. I hope he gets AIDS. I mean it.