Hey kids, so we all know that as far as living things go, humans win, not even a contest. But it turns out if you hop to the next genome over and look real carefully, you can actually see a basic version of a lot of the stuff that makes us so great. Here's some stories about what chimpanzees can get down to in the right context. Talking about chimpedales. Ahaha! Not North Korea's Pyongyang Central Zoo as a colorful history. From its humble beginnings as literally just 50 badgers and offends, to the parrot they taught to recite poetry praising Kim Il Sung, to being the only place in Pyongyang where you can look at a dog legally. It seems the only thing that's remained constant throughout this zoo's life is that it's fucking depressing. Fortunately, both workers and animals alike found ways to cope, one of which is smoking. As earlier the chimp is currently 13 years old and is one of the shining stars of Pyongyang Zoo, purely for her ability to burn through over a pack a day. Now I like a good old fashioned smoke and chimp as much as the next guy, whereas most zookeepers would probably try to talk her out to something so unhealthy. The North Korean ones actually gave her supplies, just like, huh, film trapped, welcome to the club pal. Her skills are actually pretty impressive. Not only can she use it later, but in a pan she also knows that old school yard trick of light and one singing with the other. Just the shame that her mind wasn't put towards something a little more healthier productive. Now you know what, that's pretty dope actually, I'm happy with that. Back to 1954, a chimp named Kango is born in the London Zoo. Little did anybody know, this ape was a prodigy. Out of curiosity, one of his zookeepers named Desmond Morris decided to give Kango a pencil on a piece of cardboard to see what he'd do. Almost immediately he started drawing some rudimentary lines and shapes. Morse was like, whoa, and decided to let him try painting on for size. And what he saw was incredible. Kango created these beautiful renderings with a blend of realism and self-expression that would make even the great masters stare in awe. Not just fog away the other garbage, but for a non-human, they're still selling it to be appreciated here. Kango had at least a very basic sense of composition. Like you can see there's some balance to the images. Matter of fact, when his handler would make shapes on one side of the page, Kango would deliberately mark up the other side to maintain some kind of symmetry. He also had an artist sense of self entitlement, because whenever his owner tried to take away a picture before Kango thought it was finished, he'd literally go apesh it all thrown a fit in screaming till they gave it back. But hey, painting done by a chimp, you know who likes pointless novelties like that? The incredibly rich. In 2005, three of Kango's paintings were up for auction next to works by two obscure little artists known as Andy Warhol and Pierol Gustrin War. And while the two actual artist pieces went completely unsold, these three beauties got picked up for the scant price of over 25,000 US dollars. And I was like, wow, I felt something for a second there. I really like the watermark on this, by the way. Like, hmm, this is my painting done by a chimp. Anyway, next we have this beast called Washo. Washo was the first non-human creature to learn to communicate through sign language. That's right, each chit cocoa. Prior experiments in chimp communication had attempted to teach him some basic spoken language, but after realizing that chimp's are physically incapable of making most of the noises we do, they decided signing would be the better option. Washo was raised in an environment similar to what a human child would experience, complete with toys, clothes, chores, and even being allowed to sit at the dinner table, in spite of what the Bible clearly says about that. The scientists raising Washo made sure to only communicate an American sign language around her, in the hopes of establishing a true conversational rapport. Initially they took a traditional pevelovian approach by rewarding proper use of a new sign with food and tickles. But there are a couple problems with this. Firstly, the simple action reward setup meant that Washo didn't have to really understand the words she was signing. Same way a parrot saying, I love you in a YouTube video always does it with those cold, unfailing eyes. Secondly, Washo would break into a laughing fit whenever they tickled her to the point where the lesson would be essentially over. So the researchers abandoned this and instead just let her learn through observation of her caretakers signing. With much better results, even in the total absence of a reward stimuli, and the only downside was that the job title of designated chimp tickler ceased to exist. In total, Washo learned around 350 individual signs in ASL, and she'd even used these to formulate novel phrases for new objects. Like one time she wanted to talk about a thermos, but didn't know what a thermos was, she goes, hmm, metal cup of drink. A similar story comes from a chimp named Lucy, who was raised by one Dr. Maurice Temerlin and his wife, Jane. The tale of Lucy's life is why this woman is now officially the third most famous woman named Jane who worked with apes. In the same statement as Washo, the parrot attempted to gain some insight into Lucy's weird chimp noggin by raising her like you were a human. You know, dressing herself, using silverware, making tea, looking at magazines, pretending she knows what a word is, all that jazz. But as Lucy matured, things took a nugly turn. For once, she was brought up in a basically human environment. She eventually discovered the time-tested human pastime of alcohol. The pair would leave bottles of gin around their home with Lucy, which I don't know how you'd make this mistake twice. But it was apparently a common occurrence for them to leave her alone for too long and come back like, uh, honey? I think the monkey's fucking wasted again. Another one of her hobbies was sculpting crude human heads out of poop. Her own poop, to be clear. She also left some copies of Playgirl magazine around for Lucy to flip through, which she became very fond of. So fond, in fact, that she was called multiple times, uh, having relations with the vacuum cleaner. I don't understand the mechanics of it, because no source I found ever went into detail, and believe me, I wanted to know as much as you do. All I know is that all things considered. Some pretty exemplary tool used there. So the pair saw this and they were like, all right, we gotta get this chimp laid and fast. One of them was, Lucy was conversing with people, eating with people, flicking the old chimp bean to people. So it's not a stretch to think that Lucy thought she was people. So imagine your people and you get thrown into an enclosure with a full grown, horny, male chimp. You'd have a fucking panic attack, and that's just what Lucy did. As the years went on, Lucy got more and more violent, regularly trashing the place to get out of the frustration of not being able to comprehend what was so fundamentally unnatural about her existence. Finally, the couple had had enough and decided to take Lucy to a primate rehabilitation center in the Gambia, with the hopes that she could be forced to acclimate to primate life. She could barely cope with it at first, getting real depressed and hardly associating with the other apes. What'd you be depressed to if you had to give up a life of American luxury, complete with booze and vacuum fornicating to go live with chimps in the wild? But with the help of a graduate student named Janice, Lucy eventually came to accept her fate, and although she'd never mate with another of her kind, she ended up getting along with her trip well enough. About a year after leaving the rehab center, Janice came back to visit and Lucy gave her a warm embrace before waddling back to the rest of the chimps. Aww. Then Lucy got poached like a fucking egg, which kinda puts a damper on the whole happy ending, but you know, whatever. So if there's one lesson to begin from all this, it's that the best way to learn something is to be immersed in it and to make it part of you. While treats are good for making dogs do back flips, true comprehension comes from integrating new things into your daily life. And what better way to do that than with some free audiobooks? Sponsor time? Learning the audiobooks inspires us, motivates us, even brings us closer. And there's no better place to listen than audible. If you want something kinda like what I do, except actually funny and well informed, you should check out the Infinite Monkey Cage. Think Ricky Jervais show, except half comedians and half actual scientists. It's great. You can get your first audiobook free along with two selected audible original titles when you start your 30 day trial. Just visit audible.com slash saminello or text saminello to 500-500 to get started. Again, go to audible.com slash S-A-M-O-N-E-L-L-A or text. S-A-M-O-N-E-L-L-A to 500-500 to try audible for free. Link in the description. Anyway, that's all for today. Till next time, I'm Saminella and I fell down the stairs this morning.