This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Hey kids! Now some philosophers have called Boats the Airplanes of the Sea, but while every glimmer or scolennas has its slow-mo shun, so too does J.J. the Jetplane have his awful, awful counterpart. Her legacy in many ways resembles my middle school career. A three-year-long travesty plagued by Blunder after Blunder due to both gross incompetence and sheer misfortune, with the only silver lining being that it's remembered by relatively few. Meet the USS William D. Porter, nicknamed The Willie D, which was a perfectly acceptable alias in the days before Don't Ask Don't Tell. She was a fletcher class destroyer, which if you know fletcher as well as I do, you know he's pretty high class at destroying. Like when he snapped off my DS screen during summer camp because he was trying to get a better look. Didn't even apologize. He was just like while you're not supposed to bring video games to camp anyway, even though everyone did. Fuck you fletcher, you were a counselor, you're supposed to be more mature than us. You're the reason I grew up with a lingering resentment towards authority. And my only reprisal is that I got to draw you as the disgusting fat lord for millions of people. Actually I think his name would have been Eric. Anyway, in July of 1943 the ship was commissioned by the Navy and led by Lieutenant Commander Wilfred A. Walter. As her first real job, the Willie D. was assigned to a top secret escort mission across the Atlantic. Walter was like, alright man, time to prove ourselves. I want to see you all on your A game. And as its first act under military command, the ship didn't raise anchor properly and tore a massive chunk out of the ship next to it while pulling out. Okay rough start, but definitely not a sign of things to come. The next day she met up with three other ships including two destroyers and a battleship known as the USS Iowa and the fleet set off towards Africa, given the clandestine nature of the operation. They were ordered to maintain total radio silence so as not to alert any subs that might be lurking below. Suddenly boom, bang, borg, harry christina, huge explosion off the starboard quarter. They're like holy shit, a base of maneuvers. But after however many minutes the transmission comes in saying, oh hi this is Wilfred D. of the Willie Walter. I mean so a depth charge may have accidentally fallen off the ship and we may have also forgotten to turn off the safety mechanisms on said charge causing it to detonate immediately. So if you heard a little noise a bit ago, no calls for alarm. Also sorry for breaking radio silence, love you bye. Shortly thereafter a strange phenomenon was spotted near the ship. Officer, what in the rhyme of the ancient fuck is that? Here's to be a large wave sir. Jesus Christ they have that now? Basically everything that wasn't tied down ended up being swept off and one of the boilers in the engine room got full barred. But fortunately no crew members were taken away except for the one that was. Later the four ships congregated in the waters east of Bermuda when the Iowa decided to test its anti-air abilities and launched a bunch of weather balloons for target practice. A few of these drifted towards the Willie D and they took some pot shots just for fun probably wrecking some happy Alba Drill households in the process. But Walter was like, man it's time to redeem ourselves. Spit those crayons out. Do you know the purple ones are bad for you? Time for some impromptu torpedo drills on the Iowa. Yay! That was Narnar in the palpow. They're gonna douse their trousers when they see how good we tore those pedos. Say you guys remember to take the primer out of all them before launching right? Yes sir. Yep. What? Fortunately the Iowa didn't really have much valuable cargo that could be damaged in the event that the torpedo struck. Oh except for 30 second president of the United States Franklin Delano Roosevelt who was being escorted to Cairo as the whole point of the mission. The next five minutes aboard the Willie D were just total fucking chaos. Humid sacks of race hogs and bats sniffing each other. Massive stereos. Commander we really should radio them. No! I am not breaking any more rules. Do the flashy light thing. Hey incoming signal from all iron brains are yuck. They're saying they're uh going to reverse at full speed. What? Shut off a bell sprint this ain't working. Fine column. Face time. Oof, I don't give a hoot. The transmission arrived in the nick of time and the torpedo detonated a safe distance away in the Iowa's wing. Of course they didn't stop the entire crew of the Willie D from being arrested for you know shooting a torpedo at the president. Lawton Dawson the Elmer's eater from earlier was initially sentenced to 14 years hard labor. Till FDR came out and was like no no it's okay boys will be boys. But we are sending you in the rest of Carnival Cruise Line to Alaska where there's fewer things to ruin by being yourself. Get it Carnival Cruise Line because you're the worst and also clowns. So they kicked it for a while in the illusions otherwise known as the tale of the pregnant rat that makes up Alaska. This went on mostly without incident except for when they were anchored outside an officer's home during a new year's e-party and a sailor got drunk and decided to fire off one of the five inch guns for a laugh ended up sending a bunch of his geraniums straight to hell where they belong other than that smooth sailing then they hung out at the Philippines for a bit before central command was like alright looks like you smooth skins are ready for actual missions again except you you're going to clown college and the Willie D was sent to the Battle of Vokinawa under the leadership of some guy named Charles. Here they actually did some worthwhile stuff until June 10th 1945 when a kamikaze we ended dive towards them. They weren't able to shoot it down probably because it wasn't American but a crash in the water some way so way. They were like few crisis averted turn their attention out for unintentionally driving right over where the bomber landed the plane was like the hell? Oh shit that's right. Uh bonzai about three hours of desperate repairs one five before the order to abandon ship was given and miraculously every crew member made it out of life by the time the ship sank just 12 minutes later so it just goes to show everything as it's silver lining everyone on the dip ship gets to live every filthy chucky cheese ball pit has a delicious prize at the bottom and the vast nexus of pointless diversions we call the internet actually has a couple productive things to do on it too. Sponsored time skill shares an online learning community with over 25,000 classes in design business technology and more. Brim your membership gives you unlimited access to high quality classes on must-know topics so you can improve your skills unlock new opportunities and do the work you love. If you're like me you've been mildly interested in you know actual animation for years but felt too intimidated by the community to really get your hands dirty. Skill share has plenty of tools to smooth that learning curve down into a gentle exploratory slope. How about this one? Simple character animation create a walk cycle with duic. Look at me see a layer goof shits I'm off to autonomous Kurdistan. Join the more than seven million people already learning today with a special offer just for my viewers. While skill shares already less than ten dollars a month the first 500 people who visit the link in the description can get a full year subscription for 40% off so please quit rooming and start substantiating today. Anyway that's all for today till next time I'm Sam and Ella and I'm a fellow with Rubella.