Welcome back everyone to another Downward Day. And today's video is going to feature a bit of a meta topic because we're going to be talking about the internet. And specifically my opinions on how the internet has changed during my lifetime. I've been meaning to make a video like this because over the past few years, I've started to notice that I've been spending a lot less time online. And the time I do spend on the web just hasn't been very enjoyable as of late. Now when you bring up a topic such as this, people usually like to chalk it up to aging in general changes in lifestyle. And while I won't dismiss that as at least part of the reason, I don't really think it tells the whole story. At this point, I've been around long enough where I've started to notice pretty drastic changes in how the internet is today versus how I remember it. I've witnessed enough time pass by on the internet where what I see today is basically an entirely different generation. And I'm not just talking about the people using it. This idea applies to everything from structure to functionality. And I think for young people or people who are relatively new to the internet, these differences won't seem that obvious, but they are for me. And noticing these things through time has really put a damper on my excitement to use the internet. The issue at hand here is pretty complex and multi-faceted. And I'm going to try to do my best to explain my thought process with all of this. Over time, I've reached this conclusion that's probably going to sound strange to a lot of you. I believe the main reason the internet is so much harder to enjoy nowadays is that there's too many people on it. The internet is not the internet. It's not a big truck. It's a serious boom. So I guess I'll start off here by talking about how the function of the internet has changed over time. I remember a time when the internet wasn't this ubiquitous thing that you were basically required to participate in for everyday life. And for the younger people out there in the audience, this idea might be difficult to comprehend. Especially considering how a lot of this new generation that's coming up the ranks has spent almost every waking moment of every day of their lives on an iPad. But there once was a time when surfing the web was more of a leisurely hobby. It wasn't this default state of being as many have come to know. And for context because I know I'm going to get questions about this, I first started using the internet in any capacity when I was about six or seven years old in the mid-2000s. And I didn't really become a heavy internet user until around 2010 when I was in middle school. So basically I was too young to see stuff like Geocities, but I was around to see the very beginning of sites like YouTube and Facebook. So I did get to personally witness the twilight years of what's generally known as the web 1.0 era. The time period before the rise of smartphones and every online service migrating to an app. And to put it another way, I'm probably part of the youngest generation who can remember a time when most people did not use the internet. When the act of surfing the web was viewed as almost this niche thing, I remember a time when the internet wasn't treated as that important. When internet services didn't make up the biggest sector of the economy, for most people going online was just another way to pass the time, not unlike going to a movie theater or a theme park. And that's because in the early stages of the web, there really wasn't that much to do. Sure, you could argue with strangers, play flash games, and watch shock videos in glorious 240p. But the capabilities of the early web were a far cry from the all-encompassing panacea that we've come to expect today. When I was younger, the process of browsing the internet was a similar experience to a flea market. It lacked the polish and refinement that you'd expect from a more professional service with a lot of money behind it. But there was a lot of charm to be found in the human element. The strangeness and little imperfections that you could notice with an eclectic mix of people. The experience of browsing the web back then was less about what you knew was there and more about the mystery of what could potentially be found. The uncertainty of it was part of the appeal. People have often compared it to the Wild West. There was a whimsical charm of not knowing what was out there and being able to explore it. And again, for the younger folks out there, this whole idea might seem a little strange. You know, like, why would you go online without any specific destination in mind? Doesn't that just sound like a waste of time? But back then, that was kind of the appeal. You went online to pass the time in a laid-back, leisurely way. And sometimes you'd actually stumble upon something really cool. And you'd meet cool people and you'd become part of a community that you never even knew existed. There was this level of chance and randomness that made the internet fun. It made it so that every time you logged on, your experience would be different and unique. And this aspect totally changed the way that people interacted with the web. Back then, people approached the internet differently than they do today. It didn't exactly appeal to everyone. Sure, it was technically open to everyone. It didn't discriminate. But there were definitely barriers to entry that a lot of the general public would have found alienating. And I'm not just talking about access to the technology itself. The old internet had something of a general social order. A loose system of etiquette that many users agreed to follow. And this is not the same thing as something like modern Reddit, where you get silenced and banned by micro-fascist admins for saying something even slightly out of line. No, what I mean by etiquette is that internet users back then would generally treat each other with respect. And sure, every now and then a flame war would break out and people would start trolling each other. But by and large, the amount of dysfunction and toxicity that many like to attribute to the early web, I feel is greatly overblown. And I'd actually argue that the average internet user back then had way more social cohesion than what we can find today. I think most online interactions back in the day were polite and thoughtful. And that's because back then, internet users tended to be much more alike than different. It's pretty funny actually when you go back to TV shows of the late 90s and early 2000s and look at whenever they portray the internet. And how back then there was such a clear stereotype of what the average internet user looked like. And hey, these stereotypes existed for a reason. And that's because the vast majority of early internet traffic came from nerdy men in their teens and 20s. These were the types of people willing to tolerate all the setup and troubleshooting required to get online back in the day. The internet used to be ruled by the nerds. And let's not mince words here. The internet has always been a great refuge for the socially awkward and people who have a hard time fitting in to general society. If you happen to be someone with fringe tastes or hobbies, you'd probably have a much easier time finding a community of people like you on the internet versus in real life. And that was honestly one of the bigger draws for the early days of the web. It gave people a second chance at making friends and building rapport with a community of like-minded individuals when it didn't really come so easy to them in the real world. Lots of people found that to be a very comforting notion. This idea that somewhere out there on the web, you can find people who are just like you. People you would have never known existed without the web. And back then I would argue that it was actually easier to make long lasting friendships on the web than it is today. I think there are many complex reasons for why that's the case. But I think the biggest factor has to do with how the web used to be more decentralized and how it was easier for web traffic to get to smaller domains. When I first started going online, places like Reddit, Twitter, Instagram and Discord did not exist yet. Instead, if you wanted to find a specific community, you'd have to search for its own dedicated forum or message board. And these places were pretty much all independently run. Like some guy not too different from you and me would just own the site. It wasn't under the control of some publicly traded company on the NASDAQ. And yes, these forums still did have a system of admins and moderators that could ban you. But it didn't come close to the level of streamlined bureaucracy that we've come to expect today. Classic internet forums used to be a much more intimate setting. And no, I'm not just talking about fetish and porn sites. Internet is really, really great. Poor porn. I'm talking about how many forums out there would have an active community of only a few hundred people. And compare that to the web today. We're almost all the traffic is consolidated to just a handful of platforms. And you just find yourself in an ocean of total strangers where you never see the same people twice. It's like trying to make friends in an airport terminal instead of a bar. There are just totally different social dynamics at play that alter the entire situation. When you keep adding people to a system, eventually everything just gets too impersonal. You can't form any long-lasting, meaningful relationships when you're just surrounded by this revolving door of strangers. And I think this is a significant factor in why sites like Modern Twitter and Reddit feel so bad to use. There's absolutely no consistency in the people you interact with. You get this sense that anything you contribute to the conversation is going to be totally inconsequential. And that's because on modernized internet platforms, it doesn't feel like you're talking to real people. No, instead it feels like you're stuck in this room with a giant hive mind of zombies. Because when you get too many people in the same place, eventually these mob dynamics start to break out. Any nuance just gets consolidated into this universally correct opinion. And people just sort of cease to exist as individuals. If your ideas don't fall in line with this bulk majority consensus, then your opinions are just completely invalidated. And sure, there were plenty of forums back in the day that were extremely gate-keeping. And yes, lots of them were built around this requisite belief system that it was assumed you'd had before you could join. But even back then, people would at least hear you out if you disagreed with the consensus. They would engage with what you had to say. And I think it was way more common for veteran forum posters to engage in debate, to have differing opinions that they could express without getting instantaneously banned. And over time it was precisely these differences that allowed people to stand out as individuals. And since most forums didn't have that much traffic, you would see the same general group of people over and over again. And eventually you'd start to pick up on their distinct quirks and mannerisms, what they liked, what they disliked. You'd eventually start to see them as an individual person just like you with their own thoughts and opinions. And stuff like that was important in building up trust and respect. It made online communities stronger. To me, that was the intrinsic motivation for using the internet. But for a lot of people, it wasn't enough. You see in the old days, the web was sort of like this quasi-public service. People would pretty much just hang out there because they felt like it. It's how they chose to spend their time. User-generated content was made because people thought it was cool. Or they just wanted to make something neat and experimental to share with others. But over the years there was this increasing pressure from powerful entities to turn the internet into this money-making enterprise. No, it wasn't enough for the web to be this cool place where you could hang out and meet new people. For these big tech and Wall Street investor types, there was this obsession with making the internet useful. And not useful for the needs of the everyday person, because by the early 2000s, the web had largely achieved that already. No, no, no, the web had to become useful from a corporate perspective. It had to succeed as an instrument of making profit. And from very early on, people could see the potential of the web to be this huge transformative thing for everyday life. But it took a while for people to figure out how exactly that was going to work in practice. And in the early days of the web, a lot of investors lost a lot of money because they believed the internet would be useful in these ways that didn't end up mattering. But eventually, the business world did start to figure out how the internet could be used effectively for their means. And it pretty much just involved taking services from the real world and putting them online. Instead of watching TV, you can watch YouTube and later TikTok. Instead of shopping at the mall, you can shop on Amazon. Instead of just meeting up with your friends in real life, you could just chat on Facebook. And over time, as all these modern web services are added, you start to see a gradual shift in the general functionality of the web. And the internet starts appealing to a very different population than the one that was there originally. So in order to take the internet to the next level of commercial success, it had to start appealing to the masses. Basically, anyone who wasn't a nerdy dude in their 20s. But the problem was for all those other people, the internet was seen as somewhat of a weird and unpalatable place. So the solution to get more of the general public online was to turn the web into this extension of conventional society. So tech companies started offering platforms that were more streamlined and elegant. They offered services that were more in line with what people expected out of routine everyday life. And slowly but surely, the eclectic strangeness that had come to define the web started to disappear. It was phased out for something more appealing to general consumers. And as the internet was made less weird, its unique and uniform culture started to go by the wayside. As I recall, this whole process really took off with the widespread adoption of smartphones, which quickly became the primary method most people accessed the web. And the consequences of this trend were twofold. The first being that every single web page had to be redesigned and formatted to fit on a phone screen. You could no longer design your web pages to be intricate and expressive. Everything now had to be condensed into this streamlined minimalist design. And visually speaking, this took away a lot of the soul that was once present on the classic internet. It also destroyed the readability of many text-based websites because phone screens are oriented vertically by default, so these types of sites became much less popular as a result. The second consequence of smartphones was how most traffic was directed away from web browsers and moved almost exclusively on to apps. And what this did was basically make the web more centralized while harming the ease of navigation. With the rise of apps, you started seeing more and more web content locked away in these wall gardens. And to access it, you pretty much had to move away from the standard web and instead move into some big tech companies' private playground. It gave big tech a lot more leeway to control the traffic they had and take advantage of their users. And in my opinion, the most egregious offender of this had to be Facebook. It's impossible to talk about the corporate transformation of the internet without bringing up Facebook, which was basically ground zero in turning the web into a more cynical place. Starting in the late 2000s, Facebook started blowing up in traffic. I'd argue that it was the first website that wasn't a search engine to become truly ubiquitous. At its peak, the popularity of Facebook totally transcended any other website that came before it. There was a point when it had so many monthly users that it basically acted as a second internet. Now, as the official story goes, the reason Facebook got so popular is that it pioneered this ingenious idea of people making friends on the internet. But the truth is there were sites like MySpace which came out before Facebook that had the same core idea. So what is the real reason why Facebook was so successful? And the answer is that Facebook was the first heavily traffic site to start socially engineering their users to remain on the site. Basically, Facebook was the first major platform that figured out how to reinvent the core internet experience into something that was addictive for the user. It was the first major platform to start focusing on long term user retention. Many of the design aspects on the entire site were based on manipulating you into being terminally online. And all this was done with the direct intent to keep you on Facebook and to dissuade you from spending time on the rest of the web. And the engineers at Facebook were very successful at this. Facebook was responsible for bringing a ton of new people online, but not many of them were leaking out to the rest of the web. They were cannibalizing most of the traffic for themselves. And for a lot of people in the early 2010s, Facebook was basically the extent of the web. And as more and more people came flooding in and Facebook became more and more dominant, it started to warp the public's perception of what the internet was supposed to be. All of a sudden, the web stopped feeling like this broad spectrum of cool places that you could visit and instead got reduced to this monolithic app that you can open on your phone screen. I also think that Facebook is to blame for a lot of the pathologies you see in modern online discourse. The constant reliance on ragebait to farm engagement, political derangement, and total stubbornness from people to engage with other ideas, and the proliferation of totally psychotic conspiracy theories that damaged people's grasp on reality. All of these things in my opinion can be traced back to the culture that Facebook created. It wasn't like they were these sites that invented all this stuff. It was more so how the sites unquenchable thirst for engagement unleashed these pathologies on such a huge quantity of internet users. The entire system of etiquette and respect that once existed on the old internet basically did not apply to Facebook users. And then years later when Facebook started declining in popularity, these people never went away. They just went on to infest the rest of the web. But if that wasn't bad enough, over a 10 year span just as Facebook was ruining the culture of the internet, they were also ruining the business of it. Because when you look at all the slimy, money-grubbing tricks that exist on the internet today, if Facebook wasn't the first to invent it, then they were the first to maximize it to its full potential. They set the precedent that it was okay to farm and sell user data. It was okay to make user privacy non-existent. It was okay to make teenagers depressed and addicted just to keep your traffic high enough to impress investors. And because of this, Facebook got very popular with investors. And now for any online service to receive venture capital, they have to design everything like Facebook. The user experience is no longer the priority. Instead, it's all about getting as many users as fast as possible and then using them as a means to an end. Which most of the time involves addicting them, bombarding them with ads, selling their personal data or just straight up using the traffic to defraud investors. That was basically how internet ventures made their money in the 2010s. And as Wall Street was recovering from the 2008 financial crisis, these new web services became some of the best performing stocks on the market. And very quickly, the internet all of a sudden had a ton of money behind it. I understand how some people may find it rich for me to complain about the monetization of the internet, considering how youtubers like myself have ostensibly benefited from it. But in my defense, when it comes to the commercial side of what I do, I've always tried to keep things pretty fair. You know, I try to steer clear from dishonest tactics. I'm not trying to mislead or manipulate the audience with clickbait or fake information. I try to treat the audience with respect. And unfortunately, that's not something I can say for a majority of other creators in my position. I think most people in the present day now view content creation on the internet as just another cynical money making scheme. And sure, I acknowledge that since the very beginning of the web, there have been people exploiting it to make a quick buck. But at the very least, back then, there was some understanding that in order to get more clicks on your page, you had to offer the audience something a little bit interesting or unique. Nowadays, the complexities and intricacies of human attention have been so optimally studied that pumping out successful content on the web feels like it's been boiled down to just one sterile formula. I feel like there used to be so much more ingenuity in producing something like a YouTube video. You were at one point creating something for a brand new medium that had never existed before. You could do pretty much anything you wanted. There was no wrong way to make content. But once the monetary incentive got introduced, everything got optimized for efficiency and not creativity. I think for most YouTubers these days, the process of making videos now resembles clocking into a 9-5 job rather than any sort of spontaneous creative exercise. And this mindset pretty much applies to all the content you see on the web today. The artists and philosophers of the old internet have been mostly drowned out by a new generation who are really only interested in making money. And this overall trend has made it such that almost everything you see on your feed today is trying to sell you something. The vast majority of online content at this point has pretty much become an extension of advertising, where the ultimate goal is to persuade you into making a transaction. Whether it's your time, money, and attention, most of the content you see these days is going to be fixated on one of these three things. The intent behind it is entirely cynical and the consequences of this are far more than just stuffing your page with uninspiring content. Oftentimes the end result of this type of stuff is actively malicious. It's designed to take advantage of you and exploit you. And back when I first started using the web, most people learn not to engage with it, to approach content from online strangers with skepticism. But as the internet has become overpopulated, the average user is probably more gullible today than ever before. All that wisdom from the past about being careful what you click on on the web, it's gone totally by the wayside. I feel like modern internet users are just completely oblivious when it comes to this type of stuff. I feel like people nowadays have to be reminded that no, you're not the one millionth visitor. You did not win a free iPod. There are no hot singles in your area who want to meet up with you, you know? Like the girl with big boobs who just DMed you is actually a 26 year old man in India. But it's really astounding how it feels like so many modern internet users are just clueless when it comes to this stuff. And when it comes to gullibility on the web, your first instinct is to always attribute it to children or teenagers. But I think the reason this type of scam content has become so effective actually has to do with the opposite end of the age spectrum. And that's because in the past 10 years specifically, the internet has become flooded with old people. Now keep in mind, these are not the same people who are in their 20s and 30s when the internet first came out who aged up alongside the web. No, these are people who predominantly wanted nothing to do with the web until it became indispensable for everyday life. These are people who have spent the vast majority of their lives away from the web and are now coming in and trying to impose their own system of standards for what content and social interaction is supposed to look like. And this boomer view of the world often stands in direct contrast to what the original culture of the internet was. The web used to have this predominantly youthful spirit to it. It served as something of a refuge for young people to engage with new and experimental ideas that were in contrast with the more traditional outlook of their parents. But nowadays it feels like those very same parents have invaded that space. And they're trying to reshape the culture of the internet into their old-fashioned image of the world. But at the same time, these people have no idea how the internet works. They have no respect for the people who were here before them. And when it comes to getting scammed and manipulated, they're often completely oblivious. It's almost the same effect as having a bunch of kids on the internet except these old people have way more money that they can get conned out of. So in the past five years specifically, I've certainly noticed the rise in a new market of internet content designed to exploit the cluelessness of all these new elderly people who just appeared. These people often have no critical thinking skills or sense of skepticism so they'll literally believe anything you put in front of them. If you've been paying attention to the alarming rise of fake news and AI generated slop that's been appearing on your feet as of late, these are the people who are consuming it. They can't tell the difference between what's real and fake. They can't tell if a video or image was AI generated. These people will believe that anything is true as long as it comes out of an authoritative voice speaking out of a glowing screen. To them, the only purpose of the internet is to serve as a new age substitute for television. And honestly, based on the way things have been going, that really is what the modern web is turning into. Rather than serving as this unique interactive space where you can learn new things and meet new people, the internet feels like it's becoming yet another means for people to just mindlessly consume content. To me, it represents a significant regression from what the original vision of the web was supposed to be. When I was a kid, a lot of people believe that the internet would really have a transformative effect on people and society. And I understand you could argue that's the case in certain aspects. But in a general sense, how most people interact with the web today is really not far off from the mediums of television and radio that came before it. I think it's a reasonable inference to make that the majority of people actively on the web right now are only using it as a means of producing background noise while they work on some other task, or as a way to kill a couple minutes of boredom while they're waiting in line or sitting on the toilet. The internet is no longer this magical destination that you can go to see absolutely unique and experimental content. That type of stuff has been largely pushed into the background at this point, and the role of content on the web is now shifted to being mostly benign, mindless, entertainment. That's the type of material that's now predominantly in demand by the consumers of the web. And as a consequence, most of the content suppliers these days have nothing better to do but pump out slop. It's simply easier, more cost effective and more economically prosperous than putting in the effort to make something unique or special, and it's this easy and mass-produced content which has become incredibly appealing for people from developing countries where they're now being presented with potentially their greatest opportunity to pull themselves out of poverty. And so the web has been filled to the brim with millions of people from around the world just pumping this stuff out, and that doesn't even include automated or AI-generated content which has also been thriving for the past five years. And look, I'm not one of these people who tries to insist that the internet is only made for certain groups of people. Accessibility for everyone is one of the greatest appeals of the web. And when you consider someone in poverty from India or Brazil trying to make a living by farming some web content, it's certainly preferable to them having a slave away in an abusive plantation or factory. But the side effect of this new economic frontier is that it creates a lot of digital pollution and damages the usability of the web for everyone else. It's hard to look at your social media feeds these days and not wonder how much of the content is being blatantly dishonest or trying to sell you something. You know the words gaslighting and astroturfing have now entered the common lexicon, primarily as a response to the sheer amount of fake and manipulative content you now come across on the web on a regular basis. And it's getting to the point where I feel like a lot of people are running out of reasons to continue surfing the web for leisure anymore. I understand that the latter part of this video has been heavily focused around web content and I'm anticipating some rebuttals to this saying amp. There's so much more to the web than just whatever people create and upload to it. And yes, I think it's uneniable that the web has become a more efficient place to conduct business or engage in commerce. But the reason I place so much emphasis on user content in terms of my own personal web experience is that this type of stuff is supposed to be what makes the internet unique. I mean, is the core value of the web just to serve as a place where people can more efficiently do the tedium of everyday life? Has your life really been that transformed now that you can attend a meeting on zoom instead of a boardroom? Is that really what you love about being on the internet? I started off this video with the analogy that the experience of being on the old internet was like going to a flea market. And well, the experience of the modern internet is like going to Walmart. Attention to Walmart Shower! I love Gwyfla! What are you looking at me like that for? It's a Walmart. I love Gwyfla! Sure, it's undeniably useful in a lot of ways. It's made many different parts of life way more efficient. There's definitely a lot of good stuff and good value to be found inside of the Walmart. But the actual experience of going into that Walmart to retrieve that stuff has become quite unpleasant. It's crowded, hectic, everyone stressed out and rushing to get somewhere. The whole place has this sort of sterile, corporate appearance that hurts your eyes to look at. There's no human touch to anything. It all feels streamlined for maximum profitability. They seem to have anything and everything, but the underlying quality of most of it is highly questionable. It no longer feels like a place that you want to hang out in. Instead, you just want to get in, go through the motions, and check out as fast as possible. Walmart is not a special destination. Most of the people you see in there are only present because of a sense of obligation and routine. No one is there because they just really enjoy being inside. Lately, when I've been going online, I've been experiencing this sort of detached feeling. And maybe this is all in my head. But if you happen to be in your late 20s like me, do you ever get the feeling that you don't really belong on the modern web? I mean, when I was a kid, it felt like the internet was tailor made for people in their 20s. But now that I'm actually in that age group, it feels like everything got flipped upside down. Where the internet is now predominantly a place for children and the elderly. I feel like people my age have become a sort of silent generation for the web. It's this ironic situation because I feel like many of us were actually on the web before most people showed up. But the whole thing is now morphed and contorted in a way that it basically ignores us. I don't know, maybe I'm off base with this one, but I'd be interested to hear if any of you in the comments have been feeling the same way. I feel like in the present day, we're currently at the peak of internet traffic. And it's interesting to consider the near future where the volume of total users online may eventually start to decline. It's possible that we've already reached that point actually. There was a recent report that came out saying that a lot of the traffic from a lot of major platforms are from bots, many of which are being used to train the variety of AI services that are the hot commodity on Wall Street right now. And I'm sure this is also contributed to why the internet now feels so bad to use. There's not just too many people, there's too many fake people, and eventually you have to wonder if the web gets so polluted by bot traffic that most of the humans just decide to leave. What if the culture of the web is just doomed to become a husk of bots talking to other bots? This is an idea that's been more eloquently stated in what's known as the dead internet theory, which some believe were currently living through. And while I still believe were a long ways off from the internet becoming a husk, it does feel like we're inching closer and closer to that reality. And it's interesting to consider a world where people have access to the web, but voluntarily choose not to spend time on it. It's a strange thing to think about, but funnily enough I see this as one of the only scenarios where the old ways of the internet can possibly come back. And truth be told, the web's old generation hasn't gone extinct. They're still around, it's just a lot harder to find them these days. And personally when I make videos for this channel, I like to believe that I'm still carrying that torch. You know the old ways don't have to be forgotten as long as there are people keeping the memory alive. And hopefully today I've been able to do that for some of you. They're returning me to the store after this.