Welcome back everyone to another downward day and ladies and gentlemen, I just have to make this confession. I can't stop watching family guy funny moments. Every time they pop into my feed, every single time I see the Peter Griffin on my homepage, I click. Maybe it's because I just I've gotten so completely sick of this other egregious clickbait garbage that the rest of these YouTubers are putting out onto my feed that I just can't help myself. I see family guy funny moment. I click. This this is what your Patreon dollars are going to for me to sit on my ass and watch family guy funny moments on my computer on my phone every single day when I should be working on videos. But I just can't when there's so many funny moments to watch. For as long as there is a new funny moment for me to watch on my homepage and as long as YouTube keeps serving it up and there is an endless supply. I'm just not going to be at full capacity working on videos. So I'm sorry. But you know what? Should I be ashamed of watching family guy funny moments because family guy, it's a long running show at this point. It's been on the air producing consistent funny moments for almost a quarter of a century. I believe in a couple of years or so they're about to hit season 25 and there's approximately a 0% chance that the show gets canceled before then. So we might as well count it as already being on season 25. We might as well count it as being on season 100 because Seth MacFarlane came out in an interview recently saying that he never wants to show to end. So we are literally going to get an infinite amount of family guy funny moments on TV on YouTube. Wherever you may find them, TikTok in the bottom right corner of your favorite TikTok video. There's going to be a family guy funny moment. It's ubiquitous and for as long as people have been sharing family guy funny moments on the internet, which has been ever since family guy came out. The very idea of the clips and the compilations and the TV show itself has always been a little bit controversial and polarizing. And there's a reason why so many are quick to associate these things with a guilty pleasure. But should we fill guilty for watching family guy? I mean, I'd compare the experience of liking family guy to almost people liking new Coke back in the day to call back to a bit of an older employment video at this point. Where when you hear most people talk about new Coke, it has this pretty apparent stigma attached to it where the problem is that even though a lot of people tend to like it. And perhaps many more people than we would like to admit. There is a small vocal minority of people who really, really hate the product and are very hostile towards the idea of other people enjoying it to the point where when you find yourself in a crowd of people where you don't really know where everyone stands on new Coke or where they stand on family guy. It seems like people have this hesitation to being outwardly and openly supportive of the show being an outspoken family guy fan. It's almost this thing where liking family guy opens yourself up to way more ridicule than admitting to liking something like the Simpsons or South Park or Seinfeld. I feel like being a family guy fan carries this way higher risk of other people shaming you for liking it. And perhaps that's why so many people hesitate to actually admit that they like the show. And that the show is capable of producing its fair share of funny moments. So I guess what I'm gonna try to discuss in this video is why family guy seems to get so much hate and whether or not the series deserves the hate it gets. So first off, I got to offer a little bit of personal background on this matter. So I think if many people had to guess knowing me and the type of videos I try to make, they would probably assume that I'm in the anti-family guy camp. But that's not exactly the case. At least it's not the case now. There was probably a time maybe 10 years ago where I was definitely more anti-family guy or probably resembling more of a family guy hater. But since then I've really mellowed out on the show and where exactly it stands in the all-time ranking of great TV shows and I've certainly become a lot more receptive to it. And it's gotten to the point now where I can pretty confidently say that I like family guy and I consider it a good show or at least an above average show. And I guess I want to use this video to basically try to explain why that is. But first let's get to the matter of why exactly family guy is such a polarizing and controversial show. And the first and most obvious reason of why that's the case has to come down to the show's rivalry with the Simpsons. And of course anybody who watches my videos can tell that I'm a pretty big Simpsons fan. I use clips from the Simpsons all the time on this channel and the main channel and I pretty consistently use the Simpsons in my videos for maybe over 10 years at this point. And it's pretty much impossible to have a video talking about the merits of family guy without imagining the Simpsons because the Simpsons basically provided the blueprint of what family guy would become. The Simpsons was the original archetype for not just family guy but pretty much all the animated family sitcoms that followed it. And this includes stuff like King of the Hill, American dad and Bob's burgers, whether they want to admit it or not. And I'm pretty sure most showrunners don't hide from this fact. Pretty much all these shows only exist because the Simpsons paved the way for it to be possible. And pretty much all these shows take heavy inspiration from the Simpsons in the core premise of what the show is. This is just an inexorable fact of the situation. The Simpsons influence the next 25 years of adult animation on television. And that is the primary reason why it gets so many flowers and why it is so revered by both fans and the industry alike. When it comes to this style of adult animation, the Simpsons did it and the Simpsons did it first. They were the pioneers and they were always going to be compared to everything that came after. And so that's where family guy comes in because while King of the Hill and Bob's burgers and even American dad are all quite distinct from the Simpsons in their own unique way. They put their own spin on the American family animated sitcom formula. I feel like when family guy first came out, they didn't quite do enough to differentiate the show from the Simpsons. And it's actually interesting when you consider the history of family guy because pre-canceration family guy, seasons 1, 2, and 3, before the Fox Network initially canceled the show and sent it to adult swim. The first three seasons of family guy, it's almost like a completely different show than what came after it post-revival. After Fox brought it back to the animation domination lineup. Those first few seasons of family guy have a completely different style and tone than what the series would eventually settle into with what we're used to seeing in the contemporary sense of family guy. The type of family guy that is almost tailor made for producing these funny moments compilations. The first three seasons are handled almost completely differently. This original run of family guy was far less cynical than what the show would eventually become. The show plays far more focus on storytelling and character development, kind of almost like the original Simpsons, which is what I think so many people had a problem with because while the show was in my assessment, putting these pretty well-written family sitcom stories out there, it didn't seem to be different enough from the Simpsons or at least what people saw the Simpsons as to kind of stand on its own two feet. From the very beginning, family guy had so many comparisons to the Simpsons and obviously since it came out second, I think a lot of people's first impressions of the show was that they were just basically riding the co-tails of something that came out before and did these stories better, at least a little better. And again, while these early family guy episodes were by no means bad, they were following up the legacy of what is in contention for one of the best written stretches of television in the history of the industry, Golden Age Simpsons, which is undoubtedly a tough act to follow. And it's tough to say this, but I think it's accurate, where even at its best in those first three seasons, I don't think that family guy was ever better than peak Simpsons. They could put out competent episodes with competent stories and competent character moments, but they failed to reach the brilliance that the Simpsons could so easily replicate on a regular basis. And so almost from the onset, family guy was almost doomed as being seen as this pale imitation of something that came before. Now, is that exactly a fair assessment? I don't think so. Because pretty much most things in the television industry aren't exactly original. Almost everything's been done before. The reason the Simpsons get such special treatment is because they did present something that was truly new, that felt like a paradigm shift. But this type of show coming along and redefining the industry is very rare. Probably upwards of 90 to 95% of shows that actually get greenlit are derivative of something else. So it's somewhat bizarre to me that people hold that against family guy specifically when basically 9 out of 10 shows on television and even now in the streaming age can also be defined as an imitation of something that came before. This is far from a specific problem with family guy, but I think the reason that so many people started thinking this way and seeing this show as this shameless rehash was that the Simpsons was so iconic as its own thing and original, that by the time the TV industry inevitably tried to rehash the formula, it was far more obvious which shows were doing it. So immediately out of the gates, family guy has this misfortune at stigma attached to it where it is seemingly stuck in the shadow of the Simpsons, which many already viewed as the superior product which had perfected its own formula. And then after its third season, family guy got canceled and taken off the air and this is where the story gets a little interesting. So one big contributing factor to why family guy has such an unusual reputation probably has to do with the fact that its lifespan as a TV show is one of the most abnormal out there. So basically what happened is that Fox canceled the series after season 3 where it was kicked off to adult swim to languish away as reruns, but apparently on adult swim it had pretty good reception which led to decent DVD sales and a couple of years later Fox looked at that and was like, okay, you guys are uncanceled, you get a second chance. Family guy was quite literally brought back from the dead where it was then allowed to just exist forever. I struggled to think of any other show that was canceled so early and then brought back and left to run for 20 more seasons afterward. It truly is an anomaly among the television industry and it certainly changed the trajectory and presentation of family guys a whole because once family guy was given a second lease on life, maybe the showrunners were still a little bit indignant about getting canceled for the first time because the series returned to Fox with an attitude. Very quickly it became clear that this show was no longer the wholesome family sitcom that it was originally presented as. The series was brought back with a lot more bite and the overall tone of the series changed to something a lot more cynical and this sudden change in direction led to what I personally considered to be the funniest overall era of the show. The jokes got a lot more edgy overall and the series began to dabble far more deeply into political issues and this was really the point in the show's history where it truly diverged from being in the shadow of the Simpsons and started to move in a direction far closer to something like south. The series really started to venture away from those good old fashioned family values that they mentioned in the theme song and this is also when you start to see the characters of the show begin to drift personality wise into how they're presented in modern times. Whereas in the early seasons pretty much every member of the Griffin family had redeeming and a little bit sophisticated qualities to them. The post cancellation era of the show really started to turn up the negative qualities in each of the main cast where each member of the Griffin family basically turns into an amoral anti hero similar to the character dynamics of something like it's always sunny gradually the griffins are eventually transformed into this extremely dysfunctional group of people that you're supposed to laugh at and ridicule rather than sympathize with. And by precipitating such a big overhaul to the essential characters of the show it rubbed a lot of people the wrong way and when you look at criticisms of family guy on YouTube today this is one of the prevailing points where lots of people feel like the death and nuances of the main cast were gradually eroded away to turn them in a sort of these unlikeable and repugnant caricatures of what they once were in terms of my personal opinion on the matter I consider the character change to be more. More of a trade off where yes the characters got a little less interesting on an individual basis but I feel like it greatly benefited the overall humor of the show and during this time period season four five and six of the show I personally consider it to be my favorite part I think the episodes during this run are much more memorable and iconic for the series as a whole then the first three seasons I think those earlier episodes didn't quite do enough to really separate the show identity wise from the show. I think it's a lot of the same sense but once the show started to become more edgy and political I feel like family guy really stepped in to its own space where it could truly be evaluated and judged as a distinct product and speaking of distinction this is the part of the show where they really began to lean into what is definitely the single most identifiable aspect of family guys humor and that is the cutaway gags. Whereas in the original run of the show the cutaway seem to be used mostly as a means of supporting the main story season four five and six is where the showrunners really started to make them wild almost independent sketch comedy pieces of the main product the cutaways at this time began to be used as vehicles for the writers to tell their own independent non-secret or jokes that really had no relation to the plot. And comedy wise this is probably the most controversial aspect of the entire show and it's a style of comedy that is so heavily used and so essential to the overall plot and pacing of family guy that it's really impossible to judge the merits of the show without them and I mentioned earlier how stylistically family guy at this time started to become a little bit more like South Park. Well it turns out that the creators of South Park didn't really seem to be a big fan of this and rather infamously in the South Park episode cartoon wars South Park's creators went out of their way to basically ridicule family guy and what they were mocking specifically basically had to do with the shows over reliance on cutaways. There's a well known directors commentary that's been viewed millions of times on YouTube where Matt and Tray basically explain their thought process as to why they think family guy is an inferior product and their argument basically comes down to how family guys overuse of non-secret or gags and to this day this gripe remains as one of the biggest complaints directed towards the family guy experience where once the cutaways became so heavily prioritized in the show's humor the quality of the show's storytelling suffered. And eventually over the years it almost got to the point where the story in each family guy episode was almost completely irrelevant and the situations the writers put the characters in seem like they were almost designed and contrived in order to service more cutaways. And today this aspect of their comedy remains as one of the biggest reason why people don't like family guy and it really comes down to how if you're just not a fan of non-secret or gags or random sketches being placed into an overall greater product you're not going to be persuaded in any way into enjoying family guy. So that point of preference is a main reason why family guy continues to be so polarizing and why it can probably never achieve such universal acclaim as something like the Simpsons or Futurama or King of the Hill the cutaways will always be a contentious part of the show some people love them but a lot of people hate them. But I will say for the sake of argument that if you were to remove the cutaway humor from the show I feel like it wouldn't really even be family guy anymore like him or not the cutaways are essential to the presentation and style of the show and I feel like it is the single most defining factor that separates family guy from any other show in the same genre. And my personal stance on the cutaways is that I actually believe it was a good idea for the show to begin to lean so heavily on them because they gave the show a unique flavor and truly allowed it to begin to stand on its own. But even after reaching what I personally considered to be the most iconic era of family guy the series wasn't exactly able to maintain its standard of quality for very long. This is most likely due to series creator Seth MacFarlane becoming more involved creatively with other projects such as American Dad and the Cleveland show and I think by around 2011 2012 that's where you really started to see the quality of the series slip. This is about the time when Seth must have completely checked out of the show creatively as he was trying to start his Hollywood career. There was pretty obviously no time left for him to work on family guy anymore. So this is the point where the quality of the overall series takes a pretty steep nose dive. The writing becomes quite a bit more sloppy. The jokes are far more inconsistent. There's definitely a lot more duds in the humor department during this time. I feel like this is also the time when the politics of the show get pretty heavy handed where it's very clear that the writers are definitely injecting their own personal political opinions far more into the overall product. And let me specify here that I'm not opposed to shows having a political message but I feel like in the case of family guy it really compromised what made the show special and interesting. Where when you're trying to present the series as this wacky and absurd comedy perhaps it's not the best idea to fill the product with a bunch of heavy handed political posturing. And there was definitely an earlier time where the show's writers were capable of discussing political issues in a much more subtle way that greatly improved the humor of the show rather than having it come off to the audience that they're being lectured. This is also the time when the show started weirdly leaning into shock value where it started to be common in almost every episode to see some scene of just disgusting gore or strange body horror. And in the years leaning up to this family guy had already been an edgy show but never really to this extent and whereas before they would lead up to these edgy situations thematically and sort of build the momentum to making the show more edgy. A lot of these gross body gore moments in these newer episodes sort of just came out of nowhere and they often had no logical place in the episode like they were just added in there to create this whiplash effect on the audience of seeing just something completely disgusting. It seems like during this time they must have onboarded some writer who had some strange body horror fetish or something or it's possible they were just blatantly provoking controversy to try to keep the show relevant when it was pretty honestly losing steam and losing viewers every single season. This is also the part of the show where they infamously kill off Brian just to bring him back two episodes later as part of some rather egregious ratings trap. So it's safe to say that during this time family guy definitely got a lot more shameless with its presentation the quality control simply went away. Seth was off doing completely different things and it seems like in his place he didn't really enact a showrunner who wanted to keep the quality of the show at a certain standard. It really seemed like the curation process in the writer's room had become almost nonexistent and it was common to see the show publish a lot of jokes at this time that were purely dreadful and unfunny. And by the time you hit around 2013-2014 you really saw the series reach a low point. It's sort of bottomed out in quality and I think most people would not have been too sad to see the show canceled by this time. However, they had made it to what is now the modern age of television which is otherwise known as the dying age of television where pretty much everything that was well established and had a decent audience at this point was just kept around forever indefinitely where it continues now. So family guys stuck around and it eventually bottomed out and started maintaining a rather consistent level of quality and that's pretty much where the show stands today. While not being really great or exceptional at anything it has become a remarkably consistent experience where it seems like each episode more or less for the last 10 years has been pretty much at the same level of quality. And while I don't really watch full episodes on television anymore in the past year or so I did manage to catch one episode I think when I was traveling in some hotel room. And I was actually pleasantly surprised with what I saw. For you family guy fans out there it was the episode where Lois is trying to get the customer of the month award at the coffee shop. So I guess for those who still regularly watch this series you can let me know if that was an anomaly or if that is just a good example of what the standard of the series is at now. Because as far as I'm concerned it was a purely decent episode of television and it seems to me at least from the various clips I see on my YouTube feed that the show seems to have a much younger new writing staff now. Definitely some of the ways the characters speak in dialogue in modern episodes has certain phrases and expressions written in that no one above the age of 40 could have come up with. So it's refreshing for me to see at least that the show has some new blood in the writers room which should help keep things from getting stale. So with all that history lesson out of the way how should we view family guys overall legacy. Well in my mind it's a series that has certainly had its problems and low points. It's one that's had a very dynamic and turbulent history where you can look at episodes from just a few seasons apart and have a completely different experience. I feel like at its best family guy was probably as good as any other sitcom on network television. I feel like a lot of the family guy writers don't get the credit they deserve for being as talented as they are because there are many years where family guy was truly one of the funniest shows on television. And it's common for a lot of critics of the show to attack the quality of the writing to call the writers lazy and untalented. But if you ask me in the golden age of the show and even a little bit beyond I don't really think talent was ever the issue. The family guy staffed to me clearly had some talented writers and I think this much is evident in the specials the show came out with at the end of the 2000s. Stuff like the Star Wars specials and the Brian and Stew adventures and the murder mystery special. I found each of these to be great and well written episodes of television. It's clear to me that the writers for family guy clearly had the chops to put out good scripts. I think what they lacked was a degree of leadership and cohesion to truly make something greater than the sum of their parts. I think primarily after sets stepped down from being so creatively involved with the show they started to play it a little too fast and loose with their quality control. And you ended up with a lot of undeveloped humor that got in the show which probably should have been filtered out at the writing stage. In general I feel like family guys always had the potential to be as good or entertaining as any other show in its genre. The problem is they more often than not failed to reach that potential which is probably a reason why many get so frustrated with the show. I also in my mind classify the show as something of a jack of all trades master of none where family guy has a great amount of variety. Their portfolio of comedic techniques is extremely broad and there are very few types of jokes and gags that the show hasn't tried to tackle over the years. That is at least part of the appeal for me whenever I do get a chance to watch a family guy episode. I get this feeling that they can try almost anything and that even the most unexpected jokes and references are not off the table. However the problem with the series tackling such a wide array of comedic styles is that family guy isn't really the best at any one thing. There is an ongoing gripe that the show repeatedly brings up that despite running on the air for 25 years and having generally positive reception from audiences and critics alike, the show is never won a prime time Emmy award, something that the Simpsons, Futurama, King of the Hill and even Bob's Burgers have all managed to do. It's kind of sad in a way how family guy is treated almost as this black sheep of the American adult animation industry where it was even mentioned that after South Park made that episode ridiculing family guy, they got sent flowers in the mail from the Simpsons staff. It seems that at least for a period of several years, family guy was not well liked by the rest of its peers. In the show's infamous futility at the Emmy sort of speaks to how pretty much everything they tried, some other show came along and did it just a little bit better. And I think it's fairly accurate to say that even the peak of family guy did not surpass the peak of pretty much every other show in the genre. It can often be difficult to justify watching family guy when so many parts of its act are done better by other shows like South Park and the Simpsons. Although I will admit that for pretty much the past 10 years, I've personally found the new family guy episodes to be significantly more entertaining than whatever the Simpsons has been putting out. So perhaps after all this time, family guy didn't end up getting the last laugh. And I guess that brings me back to what originally inspired me to create this video. Family Guy Funny Moments What exactly is the deal with family guy funny moments? Lots of people consider these things to be a relatively new internet phenomenon. When the truth is that family guy clips have been around since the very beginning of YouTube. In fact, I distinctly remember when Hulu came out and monopolized basically all the family guy clips on YouTube for a couple years, the people of that generation were ticked off that they couldn't watch their family guy funny moments anymore. And rather interestingly, for pretty much as long as I can remember, family guy clips on YouTube have consistently gotten more views than anything from the Simpsons or South Park or King of the Hill and all these other shows that have been historically more critically acclaimed than family guy. And maybe with this we've found the one thing that family guy is actually best at. The show has always been the most successful on the internet. And I think with that you have to give credit to the series for pioneering the cutaway gags, which for all intents and purposes are proto-internet humor. And what we think of today as memes. Family Guy basically popularized this style of humor long before it was widely accepted. And I don't think it's a stretch to say that the style of family guy's humor helped inspire and influence a lot of early online creators. Many of whom would end up being responsible for a lot of what is popular online today. And so with all that being said, maybe family guy funny moments do deserve their spot on my YouTube recommended feed. They had no way of knowing this at the time, but a lot of the cutaways are pretty much tailor made for the fast-paced style of internet humor today. And so it should be no surprise as to why these videos get so many views. During its run, family guy may not have put out the very best jokes, but it seems like they did put out the most accessible jokes. While the series is not the most entertaining, it does appear to entertain the most. In fact, by now the show has been on the air for so long that a family guy joke probably exists for any topic you can imagine. And I do believe that there is something impressive about that. And it is somewhat remarkable to see how family guy is still quite popular today with people who are born long after the show stop being relevant on television. So yes, I understand that at the end of the day, family guy probably isn't the best show. But when I see that family guy funny moment pop into my YouTube feed, I'm probably going to click on it and it's probably going to be pretty okay. And these days, that's about all you can ask for.