Welcome back everyone to another Downward Day. This video is going to serve as a bit of a follow up to the one I released a few weeks ago about deadlock and why I think it's going to be a total garbage dumpster fire. To be honest, looking at the reception it got, I was actually surprised at how many people ended up agreeing with me. You know I was expecting this video to get a lot more backlash than it actually did, but no, it appears that my sentiment happens to be shared by a lot more people. And likely a key contributing factor to this was that I happened to release my video right in the midst of the fixed TF2 movement on social media. So anti-valve sentiment had definitely reached an all time high. And I should clarify here that my video is not explicitly affiliated with the fixed TF2 movement. It was actually somewhat of a coincidence that both of these things ended up materializing at around the same time. Moreover I think it speaks to this greater idea about how the deadlock leaks ended up being this draw that broke the camel's back situation. Where it seems like for a lot of people like myself who are fans of the old valve lineage of titles and games like Team Fortress 2, the revelation that this was the shiny new toy soaking up all of Valve's attention and taking their attention away from all these older legacy titles that everyone loves. It really tipped the scales in a lot of people's minds as something to finally make them stand up and say enough is enough. This new game ended up really being a lot of people's enough is enough moment for Valve. And there's going to be a lot of people out there who will listen to that and say that people like us are being unfair and unnecessarily harsh and biased. And that I have to say, you know what? You're damn right. I am biased. I am biased against this new MOBA shooter. I'll admit it. I'm not going to sit here and lie to everyone and try to act like I'm this impartial observer because that's not the case. I'm definitely biased. I am a salty TF2 player who wants Valve to fix the game and anything that takes attention away from that is going to piss me off. And unfortunately, that's what this new devot game is. It is something standing in the way of what I want. And is it selfish to say that? Yeah, it is. There's no sugar coating it. But if you're looking for a milk toast impartial review on this channel, then I suggest you go somewhere else because this is my personal opinion and it exists for good reason. And to some outside observer who doesn't have the context for anything that's going on, this all may seem like a bunch of petty theatrics. But the problem I want to investigate with this video is am I wrong to feel this way? And with that, I want to talk more specifically about the fixed TF2 movement. It's a movement whose core message I primarily agree with. And while I'm not explicitly affiliated with the movement itself, I do heavily share the sentiment with what it has to say. And it has to say about the state of the game and the negligence of Valve. Because when you look at the state of Team Fortress 2 public servers, it is absolutely fair to be indignant about it. It is absolutely fair to direct hate towards Valve for what they allowed their formerly illustrious title to turn into. And I consider it a good decision to escalate the matter to the level that the TF2 community has. The game has reached a state where some sort of progress must be instigated. And making Valve commit to either actually supporting the game that they take millions of dollars in profits annually from or discontinuing their involvement entirely and handing it over to the community. As far as I'm concerned, the game cannot persist in this weird limbo state where Valve pops their head in occasionally to sell us crates and keys. But otherwise turn a blind eye to this putrid infestation of bots that makes the base game unplayable. There needs to be changes made so that this game doesn't die with the current generation of players. But with all that being said, there are plenty of people out there who share the opposite sentiment. And obviously as is the case with any loud, coordinated demonstration online, there's always going to be a little bit of pushback from people just being contrarian or people not wanting to see the noise in their timeline. And the fixed TF2 movement has undoubtedly produced its own fair share of backlash. There are plenty of folks out there who consider this whole thing to be a bunch of pointless whining. And a lot of people have used this backlash to talk about how TF2 fans and the TF2 community are annoying and entitled. And at face value, I can sort of understand how some people think this way. Where when you consider the situation in a vacuum, it could seem bizarre that a bunch of angry gamers are rallying together to try to revive this 17 year old title. So when confronted with this information, a lot of people's first reaction is to just look at TF2 players and tell them to quit and go play something else. Or better yet, tell them that deadlock is the new TF2 and that they should go play that instead. And if this sentiment wasn't so common, I would think that people are literally trolling, but sadly this is not a joke. This is how some people choose to contribute to this discourse. They really think they're saying something so clever and profound by telling TF2 players to quit and go play something else. So for today's video, I want to fixate on this specific point, which so many people seem to share. This can't response for people who are upset at TF2 being in an unplayable state, telling them to just leave, bro, as if you are providing anything relevant to the conversation. So allow me to carefully explain how telling TF2 players to solve their problems by abandoning the game is a totally pointless and nonsensical argument. I've been trying to rack my brain as to how anyone could possibly consider this to be a legitimate rebuttal. And I've since come to realize that this just has to be the result of people being massively mistaken in a combination of three different areas. So first and foremost is misunderstanding why TF2 players are actually complaining in the first place. For some reason, there's this huge misconception among the critics of the fixed TF2 movement that the TF2 community is staging this whole protest because they're angry about a lack of content in the game. Like this whole petition with hundreds of thousands of signatures is because people want vow to add new weapons or something or that TF2 players are somehow upset that the game doesn't have mainstream attention. And maybe this all goes back to our national literacy crisis that I touched on a few videos ago, but the people who believe this have out of themselves as having a sub first grade reading level. As in they're unable to do the bare minimum of effort to actually understand what the hell is going on and what they're even talking about. And if any of you folks happen to be listening to this right now, let's set the record straight in a way that a first grader could understand. Team Fortress 2 is currently infested with a massive wave of bots that insta kill you as soon as you leave the spawn room, making the game unplayable on Valve public servers. Try to load into a Valve server right now and you cannot play the game. These bots have been allowed to roam free and completely exploit the game because of Valve's negligence and failure to maintain their own servers and create a working anti cheat. This whole protest, the whole fixed TF2 movement comes down to removing these bots from the game and asking Valve to get off their ass and actually do work for a game that generates them tens of millions of dollars in revenue annually. Like am I making myself clear enough? Does that clear the air for all of you people who are confused as to what this is actually about because you couldn't click on a link and read a couple paragraphs of text explaining in very simple language why this is happening. This TF2 community has accepted long ago that the game is in its final state balance wise. No one is waiting on baited breath for new content anymore. We have long accepted that ship is sailed and anytime you hear someone bring up the idea of an update they're probably referring to the heavy update that Valve promised all the way back in 2016 and meet your match that they just never followed up on and never came out with any press release or news or blog post or anything saying that the update was cancelled which it realistically is. So again when you're talking specifically about the heavy update do not blame the players for wanting Valve to follow through on a promise they made. The blame again should be placed on Valve for not communicating sufficiently or even in the most simple modicum of information that the heavy update is not coming out. No instead they choose to just sit on their hands like they've been doing for the past decade and just kick the can down the road and not bother with it and hope that TF2 players keep buying keys. So again let me repeat myself loud and clear if you believe that the fixed TF2 movement is about TF2 players wanting more content or wanting the game to be more relevant then you need to shut your mouth unplug your keyboard and learn the facts. So with that obvious stuff out of the way let's move on to misunderstanding number 2 and that is failing to understand the value that TF2 players get when they engage with the game and failing to understand the dichotomy between the types of players that enjoy TF2 and the general gaming consumer base. So for the sake of argument here we're going to have to draw a line between two distinct groups of gamers. The first group is how I imagine the vast majority of video game consumers engage with their products and that is you pick up a game, play it for a few days or a few weeks, get bored and then pick up a new game. People call these people gaming tourists because that's basically what you're doing. You're a tourist in each of these games. You're playing it a little bit, having a little bit of an introduction, a little sampling plate of the mechanics and then the moment it stops working for you or stops being entertaining you dip out and try something else. I think what most people fail to understand is that the recurring day to day player base of TF2 is not like this. Most everyone you see hanging out and playing the game on TF2 servers are what I'm going to call gaming residents. They basically live in TF2, it's their home. It's why anytime you see anyone extoll the greatness of TF2 and look at their profile, it's very likely that they have hundreds if not thousands of hours in the game and that is because TF2 is one of those games that is so mechanically rich that it's capable of keeping certain people's attention for literally thousands of hours. And this is simply a fundamentally different way of engaging with video games than just being a tourist. And let me clarify here that there's nothing wrong with engaging in game tourism. In fact, this is something that's to be expected when engaging with any other form of media like music or television or movies. It's totally normal to skip around from artist to artist and it's perfectly fine to do this with video games as well. Again, I'm not trying to paint this as some kind of illegitimate way to enjoy video games. But where video games differ from movies and TV and music is that each individual product has insane potential to engage the player in basically a never ending experience. Games like Minecraft and Roblox and World of Warcraft offer such deep gameplay loops that I don't doubt that there are literally some people out there who can play these games exclusively for the rest of their lives and not get bored. There are millions of players out there who could be classified as residents of Minecraft. They almost exclusively play Minecraft. And this type of player, gaming residents, happened to make up the bulk majority of TFT's concurrent player base at any given time. There are people who just pick up the game and they don't play any other games. And that's how I was for a long time. So I certainly relate to how this is. I'm personally someone who takes great satisfaction in truly exploring the depth of a game's mechanics. So I pick up certain games and I just play them for a really long time and I don't really want to play anything else. So with that being said, are you going to sit there and tell me that I'm enjoying games wrong? That this way of engaging with video games as artistic products is somehow invalid. And again, I'm not trying to invalidate the alternative. If you enjoy playing a hundred different games in a year, if you enjoy being a tourist, that's perfectly fine. I'm not going to fault you or call you dumb for doing that. All I'm asking is that the same understanding can be granted to the other side. Players who consider one individual game to be their home. You must acknowledge that these people exist and that it's a perfectly reasonable way to enjoy video games. And so now that I've hopefully painted this clear distinction between the two different spheres of gaming and how people actually engage with the product, do you sort of understand how telling the average TF2 player to just leave and go try something else doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. You think that someone who spends thousands of hours in a game probably likes it, probably considers it to be one of if not the favorite game in their library and that in engaging with one individual game for so long that they have probably found their ideal gaming environment. And you're going to sit there and tell them to just leave when their favorite game of all time, the one they sunk thousands of hours into gets disrupted by some external force that has nothing to do with the actual design of the game. And again, there are plenty of valid reasons to leave a game and usually when they happen, people don't need to be told to do so. You could just lose interest. The game gets boring or the publisher completely messes up balancing with some godforsaken patch that just throws everything out of whack or they can introduce predatory monetization models or the flat out design of the game could just go downhill to where it doesn't resemble what you picked up in the first place. None of these things apply to TF2. Trust me, anyone who gets bored with TF2, they leave probably before our 10. They definitely don't stick around into our 3000, which is what the bulk of TF2's player base has under their belts. It's almost like maybe TF2 players enjoy TF2 and they want to keep playing it and then all of a sudden some extremely disruptive force has come around and is ruining that experience. But yeah, just leave and go play another game, something that can somewhat but not quite fill the void of a gameplay formula that you know you already enjoy, but one that has been ruthlessly taken away from you. Because honestly, you don't have to tell me because I did stop playing TF2 and I did go on to other games like Deep Rock Galactic and trust me, it's fun, it's a really good game, well designed, but I can't help but think that the only reason I'm here and not in TF2 has nothing to do with how TF2 stopped being fun. I don't exactly consider being forced out of TF2 to be this liberating solution. I never think to myself, boy, am I glad that I follow Joe Schmoh's advice on Twitter telling me to just leave. I don't take satisfaction or pride in that, in knowing that the game I loved and consider my favorite ever and put more time into than any other, it's in an unplayable state because of external factors from malicious parties. It feels to me like a tremendous tragic loss. A part of my life I really enjoyed that suddenly became inaccessible and obviously duh you try to go play other stuff but it's not the same. You're always comparing it to the richness that you once experienced in the ideal version of a game that once existed and for the types of gamers and the tourist mentality it's easy to just jettison any old game and then pick up another one, big deal. But do you maybe sort of understand how for someone who spent years of their life in one game that possibly losing that game is a little bit more meaningful than just renting a cartridge from Blockbuster and returning it a week later. Did you ever consider that maybe a little bit more of a personal commitment was made here and that moving on to something new and enjoying it in the same way is a bit of a tall order. And as is the case in my own experience, when I stopped playing TF2 I basically stopped playing video games on Steam outright. I went over a year without having Steam installed on my computer just because TF2 was ripped away from me. So stop trying to tell me that I can somehow get over the loss of my favorite game by playing a MOBA. I'm always trying to get you to play another MOBA as if that is even close remotely close to the ballpark of what I'm looking for in a game. I know what I'm looking for. I played it for 10 years and I was fine and content with how it was and then it got ruined. Could someone explain to me how exactly it's entitled to request that a game runs as advertised. Because that's pretty much all TF2 players are asking for. Is that really so unreasonable? Does it really annoy you that people are asking for this very simple request? For the experience to match up with the one people know is true in their heads. Like are you seriously going to call people annoying for asking for that? Why? Because the game is old. You mean to tell me it's something that can't be done because the game is old? I mean it's not like a bowl of fruit. This is a digital product that doesn't spoil. As long as you have the functional hardware, the experience should more or less be a one to one match to how it always was. It doesn't matter how old it is. That's a total non-secretar point. And I think this is the part where so many people get hung up on the most. And this brings me to reason number three why people are fundamentally mistaken. And that's that a lot of people haven't caught up to the responsibilities of modern game developers and their relationship with the customer. Have a look at the TF2 situation. And because it's sort of an old game, they apply old standards to how this is supposed to work out as if the video game industry isn't totally different today in how it fundamentally functions as a business. So when it comes to the relationship between video game publishers and consumers, there's an unspoken social contract of sorts. For sensor engaging with a digital product that doesn't spoil, at least in explicit terms, that when you purchase that product, you are free to enjoy it in perpetuity. For instance, someone who bought Guitar Hero for the Wii. They can expect to dig that disk out of their closet, put it back in their Wii, and enjoy more or less the same experience they remembered. And aside from obvious hardware defects, the core game in theory should be a one to one to one recreation. The game itself will not have mutated over time into something unplayable and unrecognizable. This is the underlying and unspoken agreement that a customer and a corporation engage with when a transaction is made. And back during the time when video games were sold as individual products, this whole idea was a lot more simple to understand. You'd pay for the game upfront, be given a physical copy in your possession, and once you stuck the game in your console, the experience you got was the experience you had and the one you owned forever. There was no patches, no DLC, no digital copies, no season pass, battle pass, whatever. The product you owned would remain in its state, for as long as you bothered to engage with it. With the only extenuating factor, being the physical mechanical lifespan of your hardware or the integrity of the disk or cartridge. That was what video games were for primarily the first 40 years of their existence. But very quickly, the business model, the underlying way in which game studios made their money was completely overhauled over the last 15 years to where when you look at how video games are actually created today, it is completely different and operating under completely different set of standards. For the object that video game developers are selling has largely shifted from a product to a service. As much as people have been dragged kicking and screaming into this new nightmarish capitalist reality, this is the nature of what games are now, and as much as you don't like it, and as much as many people wish they could return to the old days when things are more simple. You have to face the fact that this is what most AAA games are now. People now pay for the games, they produce the revenue to get these games made in a totally different way than they used to, and with that comes a totally different set of expectations for what exactly games studios are supposed to provide. And the underlying social contract between the publishers and the consumers has changed as well. Because if you're going to sell me now, this idea of a game being a service, you as a developer kind of have to stand by that and actually service the game. People like to point to the release date of Team Fortress 2 and see everything that came out around it. Back when the video game industry still sold most of their games as products, and they assumed that TF2 should be pigeonholed into that same format. That is certainly not what it would wind up becoming, because for the vast majority of TF2's lifespan thus far, the game has unequivocally been treated as a service. What may have you heard this one before? A free-to-play game with loot boxes and in-game economy and micro transactions with skins and cosmetics. Continually receiving new updates and balance changes long after its initial release. Shish, it sure sounds like I'm describing pretty much every modern game today. But take a wild guess at which games served as the guinea pig to prove that these revenue methods were actually viable and successful for the gaming industry. I like to call TF2 the last boomer shooter, but it can far more accurately be described as the first live service game. So yes, it is an old title, and it came out alongside a bunch of other stuff that we associate with different standards and different expectations as to how we engage with them as a consumer. But there's no getting around it, TF2 just got under the door of the other side, the present day format of the video game industry where everything is a service. And just because its actual release date was so long ago doesn't change that fact, TF2 has operated and has earned the bulk majority of its revenue for Valve as a live service game. So I don't want to hear how TF2 deserves to be hung out to dry just because it's old. When the nature of the game is a service, I damn well expect that the service is maintained and held to a level of consistent quality. Like imagine going to an AT&T customer complaining that their cell service is down and saying to them, well, why are you whining about a 100 year old company? Do you have any idea how nonsensical that sounds? But this is what people are doing right now with TF2 saying that people should just abandon it because it's old. Oh, how convenient it would be for developers to just set it and forget it like they could in the old days. I find it so offensive that Valve wants to adhere to this double standard. We're in terms of their developer labor. They still want to treat all their games like their products. Despite the fact that all of their salaries are being propped up from the record setting revenue of converting all these titles into services and yet they don't want to put in the bare minimum effort to maintain them. If you wanted to just sit on your ass and not have to upkeep older titles, here's an idea. Maybe you should have just kept them as finished products to begin with. But no, as Valve, we can simultaneously create this revenue design philosophy that utterly ruined the video game industry while still padding ourselves on the back and going on and on about how much integrity we have in the quality of our games. It's such an amazing whimsical thought in your head to have until you actually play them and realize that so many of Valve's most famous titles at this point are completely neglected to the point where it's not even worth playing them because the gameplay experience has been turned into garbage. And I love how Valve just tries to hand wave this idea of putting in actual maintenance to their live service games by writing it off as treadmill work. Oh no, you see, we can't use our billions of dollars of resources and some of the most talented game developers in the world to combat these basement dwelling bot-hosters because that would just create this perpetual cycle of work for us. And you know, we don't want that. We don't want to make our workers that we pay hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in salary to actually do work. Geez, it sure seems like Valve is content with having their player bases perpetually generate them revenue and perpetually play their live service games. But when it comes to perpetually having to maintain these infinite money machines, all of a sudden that's too much to ask for. Because I'll tell you what, when it comes to what the revenue of live service games have mutated into today, derived primarily from Valve's original philosophy that they implemented in Team Fortress 2. You look at stuff like exclusive time skins and battle passes that basically require the time commitment of a full time job to actually unlock everything in. It definitely feels like the gaming industry has been content with putting the consumer on a treadmill. When you ask those very same expectations out of the developers responsible for all this, all of a sudden it's too much. You just can't handle it. It's just too much work to update back and blacklist obvious spinbots who kill players instantaneously from across the map. Something that community server plugins have long since figured out how to do. It's just too much work for Valve, the company that actually collects all the money and extorts and exploits all the goodwill from this game. And I guess what is even more shocking to me is that the general gaming consensus is that, oh yeah, this problem is too hard to solve. You're just asking for something completely unreasonable. That Valve engage in this complex task that community servers have already figured out. Oh, but no, the game's too old. It's a lost cause. You should just move on to the next game of which there is none. Guess what folks and other consequence of live service games, they don't tend to make very many sequels. And at this rate, I wouldn't even want a sequel to TF2. Judging by how Overwatch 2 and Counter Strike 2 have gone, I don't really think that's the solution we're looking for. But so many people out there act like it's just natural and correct to move on to the next game. Just move on over, forget what you had before. And yeah, maybe when the franchise model is something like Halo where it's usually built on the same engine and the next game only adds more stuff to the new game, then I can sort of understand waiting until the next one comes out to move over. But again, we're comparing apples and oranges here because of the original Halo just came out today in today's gaming environment. They wouldn't have had to break the game up into different sequels, they just would have patched all the stuff in over time into a singular live service. And since when have we collectively decided that this practice of simply leaving an older game for dead and shutting it down for an inferior sequel is actually a good practice, is actually consumer friendly and ethical. Our most gaming consumers just some kind of battered spouse with no standards or self-respect that they just automatically fork over money for a new game even if it's complete shit. I mean, hey, look what kinds of games have been putting out annual releases for the longest time. FIFA and Madden. And every single year without fail, I constantly get these videos in my YouTube recommended of people complaining about whatever the new Madden or FIFA is. And every year, it seems like the game just keeps getting worse. But do people stop paying for them? No. Do all these annual episodes of complaining actually amount to any real sacrifice or action by the consumer base? Oh no, they just keep going back to buying the next one. And paying for micro transactions and loot boxes and the my ultimate team or whatever the hell jacked up game mechanics, these people have put into these once great franchises. And last time I checked, all these games are still making record profits. And you have to wonder that maybe if the FIFA player base and the Madden player base put up a little bit more of a stink rather than just routine lip service at how the new game sucks and it's the worst ever. Maybe if you guys actually showed some solidarity like the fixed TF2 movement that you wouldn't have to be used as EA's annual dormat. And for all you consumers out there who enjoy these live service games, you don't have to like TF2, you don't even have to like the fans. But you should probably be paying close attention to what exactly happens with this whole little movement here. Because if you happen to be a fan of one of these free to play micro transaction games, I've got news for you. You are looking into the future. What you think your little competitive MOBA shooter with a battle pass is not going to meet the same fate as TF2. You don't think the developers just going to wake up one day and start sitting back and collecting all the money while not putting in the bare minimum effort of keeping the game functional. I consider fixed TF2 to be very much in your interest because the present day situation of TF2 is going to be the future of your game. And you're already starting to see it happen with stuff like Counter Strike, a property that makes Valve 100 times the amount of revenue that TF2 does. Because the thing to understand about TF2, this old game, is that it's one step ahead of everything else that followed it. TF2 set the precedent for the modern gaming revenue model. And now with this whole fixed TF2 movement and the state that the game is in now, you better believe that they're still setting precedents. And while we can't go back and prevent the live service cancer from investing the video game industry, we can take action now to send a message to developers that if they're going to convert their games into these shitty perpetual services, the least they can do is maintain those services. So I hope through all this you've come to an understanding of why TF2 players aren't quite ready to let their game go just yet. So originally the video was supposed to end here, but as we were editing it, there has been an interesting development regarding the fixed TF2 movement. And that's that to many people's surprise, Valve actually did something. And this wasn't like that lip service response they gave back in 2022. No, this was real tangible action. So as of around the 27th of June, I believe there was a massive band wave in Team Fortress 2 where it appears that the vast majority of bots have been removed from the game. And there've also been reports of certain malicious actors and bot-hosters getting their steam accounts limited with the band reports specifically citing interfering with the gameplay prosperity of Team Fortress 2. And again, while this is no means a permanent solution, it's definitely a step in the right direction and it should be viewed as a victory for the movement. And once again, it just goes to show that people may get annoyed by complaining, but no one wants to admit that complaining is damn effective. And trust me, that's something I personally have a lot of experience with. You think I get tired of being proven right so often, but you know what, it never really gets old. So let this serve as a reminder for all the doomers out there, all the people who think that TF2 should have just been abandoned and the community should have just given up. Sometimes a little bit of activism goes a long way. And I understand that when this whole thing started, there was probably a fair chance that Valve would have just done nothing, but as you can see by what happened, making a big shit storm sure as hell raised the odds that something would happen. And in this case, it did. Now whether or not Valve is just going to go back into their den for two more years of radio silence, that's their own choice. But the stakes have been made clear. If they thought this whole TF2 situation is bad, I cannot wait to see the magnitude of the problem on Valve's doorstep when the CSGO and Dota 2 community get just as fed up. And I think Valve may have seen into the future and looked at the writing on the wall as well. And all of a sudden how the tables have turned suddenly all that treadmill work doesn't look so unappealing now. And I think the folks at Valve have figured out pretty quickly that even if for whatever reason they're unable to fix this massive cheating problem in their multiplayer games, they had better damn well try. Hi, I want to play TF2. Uh, I refuse. What?