Welcome back everyone to another Downward Day. And a few weeks ago on the channel I talked about my opinions on the Phantom Menace. But before I finally move on to another topic, there is one little loose end that I still have to address. And it doesn't necessarily pertain to anything about the Phantom Menace specifically. But it moreso pertains to a greater conversation about how we look at movies as a culture. So while I was doing research for the Jar Jar video on the main channel, I came across this podcast called The Redemption of Jar Jar Binks. And this is one of those professionally produced NPR-style podcasts where they have a bunch of soundbites and interviews and a narrator. There are six episodes in total, and overall the complete runtime comes out to around three hours. And I listened all the way through the whole thing, trying to come out of it with some insightful information that I could work into my script. I will say that there were a few valuable parts sprinkled throughout the show, particularly in the interview segments with Ahmed Best. But overall as a total product, I can't say I recommend it. And that's because there's something about it that I found to be quite irritating, where when it came to telling the complete story of Jar Jar, I couldn't shake the feeling that the author was intentionally leaving stuff out. The whole thing seemed to leave a lot to be desired in terms of why exactly Jar Jar was hated in the first place. The author tries to attribute the negative audience reception towards Jar Jar on media influence and random online hate groups. And it really feels like the whole time they're just tiptoeing around the meat and potatoes of why exactly that response, such a negative visceral response, was elicited. In fact, this podcast almost tries to spin the Jar Jar hate, as some kind of spontaneous spur of the moment thing where a bunch of people just went along with it because it seemed fun. And maybe for a few people that might have been the case, but the overwhelming majority of fan backlash towards Jar Jar came from being deeply offended at the product on screen. There's really not much else to the story other than that. And to try to pin the whole thing on some kind of spur of the moment internet fad, it really comes off to me as historical revisionism. Where for some reason you're unwilling to admit that Jar Jar and the Phantom Menace were hated products because they were so disappointing to fans. I understand that there's an argument to be made that Jar Jar was perhaps made out to be a scapegoat for a farmer underlying problems within the film. But to try to paint the picture that somehow hating Jar Jar in 1999 was this super unreasonable and mean spirited thing. It just doesn't reflect the reality of the situation. And this is something that in my portrayal of the Jar Jar story, I worked really hard to try to convey. I really wanted to portray to people how Jar Jar got on people's nerves and how exactly he was perceived as such a major mistake in the Star Wars franchise. I wanted my viewers to understand that the hatred for Jar Jar was not some arbitrary ban wagon. It stemmed from people being deeply bothered with the presentation of episode one. And I bring all this up because lately I feel like there's been this weird alteration of history where people have convinced themselves that not only was the Phantom Menace somehow a good movie, but that it was never even hated in the first place. Or that what little hate did exist for this movie was negligible coming down to just some fringe group of internet trolls. And it's just so unusual because this way of thinking is purely the opposite of what actually happened. The negative fan response for Jar Jar the Phantom Menace and the prequels in general were unequivocally real and widespread. It didn't just come out of some small contingent of trolls and contrarians. No matter how you slice it, a large number of people were not a fan of what was going on in the prequels. Far too many to simply hand wave away and ignore. However, these days it feels like it's almost not enough to simply ignore these people. But to actively go out and shame and discredit them for believing what they do. And again, to clarify, I'm personally not someone who hates the prequels to an extreme degree. But I can certainly understand why someone would hate these movies. But the more and more I see about this kind of discourse in the modern day, it's almost as if our culture has adopted this hesitancy to allow movies to be hated. So this whole way of thinking is certainly foreign to me. In fact, I remember a time on the internet not too long ago where people were almost encouraged to express their displeasure with various movies and games and other pieces of media. It was common to act irreverent towards mediocrity. And people sort of had this sense of pride in separating the good from the bad. If a movie came out that sucked and a lot of people agreed that it sucked, you could expect people to ridicule it and not just people, but cultural mainstream institutions. In the 2000s, it was common to see shows like The Simpsons and Family Guy in South Park openly mock movies that had flopped. And God knows how many times South Park has ripped on a movie. This was a common aspect of culture throughout my youth and even leading into the early years of YouTube, where you had guys like the Angry Video Game Nerd and the nostalgia critic who built their entire careers off of being irreverent towards poor and mediocre pieces of media. Hell, even when I was coming up the ranks on YouTube, there was a popular channel called I Hate Everything. So this idea of hating movies has always been around since the beginning of show business, but I feel like in the last few years specifically, something has changed in the cultural way that we view movies. We're all of a sudden, there's this growing number of people who feel that the act of hating a movie is somehow inappropriate and that it reflects poorly on you. You think it's cool to hate things and it's not, it's boring. And it has increasingly become the case where you're no longer able to share a negative opinion about a movie online without a bunch of people lining up to tell you how the act of doing so somehow reflects this moral failing on your end. And while I can't say for sure what exactly caused the sudden change in attitude, I can say with confidence that this behavior of actively stifling film criticism is going to cause damaging effects for art and culture down the road. Because what it's doing is contributing to a dishonest relationship between the film industry and consumers. For instance, let's take a look at this Jar Jar podcast that I've been discussing. Basically the whole purpose that the author is trying to convey is to turn around and say, hey, look what a tragedy it was, how Jar Jar and Ahmed Bess were treated after the Phantom Menace. Which I'll admit is not too dissimilar from my video on the matter, but the key difference is that the podcast fails to paint an accurate picture as to why exactly the audience response towards Jar Jar was so hostile. The author leaves out key information pertaining to the actual context of the media behind the whole controversy. If you were to listen through this show with no prior knowledge of the Star Wars franchise or George Lucas or the Phantom Menace or anything leading up to the controversy, you'd be led to the conclusion that all the anti-Jar Jar sentiment in 1999 was simply the result of one big temper tantrum from a bunch of angry delusional nerds who didn't get their way. Now that keep wanting a Jar Jar though. Kids like Jar Jar, why? What are the Ewoks? Hey, they were rubbish. And maybe for a few people that was the case, but to brush aside the entire outrage behind the Phantom Menace as petty and vapid. That is simply not taking into account the full story. You are deliberately omitting key pieces of information to editorialize this historical event. And look, I understand that my retelling of the story is full of my own personal opinions, but at the very least, I made sure to at least demonstrate the perspectives of both sides. I didn't leave out a bunch of key information to make my opinion seem more compelling than it actually is. And for whatever reason, the host of this podcast uses dishonest tactics. In some misguided attempt to cover up the tracks of the institutional powers who were actually responsible for the problems he's discussing, it's strongly implied by the author throughout this whole series that the Jar Jar haters were engaging in unethical behavior. And I will acknowledge that a few of these people crossed the line, obviously calling Ahmed Best House and leaving him hate messages on his voicemail machine is deranged behavior that should not be tolerated. But to try to imply that this lunatic fringe of freaks is somehow supposed to represent the entire Star Wars fan base, it's just an absurd and dishonest tactic. Sending someone death threats to their house is not at all in the same ballpark as posting a few memes online. And yet the author of the show wants to lump them all into the same basket to bolster this implication that people hated Jar Jar because they were engaging in some kind of nefarious act and that were not allowed to extend them the benefit of the doubt. There's this heavy condescending tone throughout which suggests that the people who hated Jar Jar were all a bunch of sketchy and morally questionable people and that it's pretty much their fault exclusively that Ahmed Best ended up with so many personal struggles. Oh how convenient it would be if the story were that simple. All of these bad things happen just because there's a bunch of bad people out there. And as long as we just chastise them for the bad people they are, that should make everything okay, right? And I don't know which of you out there needs to hear this. The act of hating a movie in and of itself does not make you a bad person. Hating Jar Jar does not make you a bad person. Hating the Phantom Ennis does not make you a bad person. Hating the new Star Wars trilogy or the Amazon Lord of the Rings show or the last season of Game of Thrones does not make you a bad person. It is not, nor has it ever been unethical for you to have a negative opinion about a piece of media that you feel in your heart of hearts sucks. In fact, it is your right and prerogative as a consumer to complain when a product you have purchased misses the mark. Because the story of Jar Jar and the Phantom Ennis has nothing to do with a bunch of nerds getting spontaneously pissed off for no reason. This whole controversy can be boiled down to a group of consumers who were let down by a poor product. And I don't really understand why it has to represent anything beyond that. I'm getting real sick of people telling me that it's the customers fault when billion dollar corporations decide to put shitty products out on the marketplace. And over the past decade or so now, it feels like there's almost this consolidated effort to write off negative audience reception as irrational behavior. As if the consumer is too stupid to appraise the value of what's right in front of their own eyes. Ten years ago, a movie could just be called a flop and that was that. The press could report that a movie was critically pan and move on with their lives. Oh, but of course that process was way too simple. Because now in the present day, whenever a movie comes out and sucks, you don't even have to admit that it's a failure. No, no, no, instead of a movie getting panned, now it gets review bombed. Oh, boohoo. All those bad reviews, my piece of shit movie is getting. It's just a coordinated conspiracy by a bunch of people who want to ruin my movie's reputation on purpose. Yeah, that's gotta be it. All these thousands of people taking time out of their day to write essays on IMDB of how much they hate your product. It can't possibly be because you made an offensively awful movie. No, it's just review bombing. That clears it up. Oh geez, for a second there, I would have actually had to think about where I went wrong in the creative process. And maybe, I don't know, try to improve the quality of my work. But no, lucky me, right? All of a sudden in the last ten years only, everyone on the internet decided to just leave one star reviews for no apparent reason in particular, right? You can't post a negative review anymore or you're just review bombing. You can't upload a video to YouTube talking about how much a movie sucks because then you're just grifting and I understand that across the whole market of people complaining about movies on YouTube, a few people are probably just in it for the money. Like when someone such as the quartering releases 70 videos complaining about Brelarson, yeah, at that point you're probably just preaching to the choir. But are we just supposed to hand wave away the reason for why that choir exists in the first place? Do you think someone like Mallor could get an audience of millions by complaining about Star Wars over and over again? If those people, those viewers didn't care about what was being said, if the criticism of these movies didn't resonate with them as well, and you can question the intention behind these YouTubers all you want. But the fact of the matter remains that this traffic exists for a reason. And I really don't think that millions of people would click on these videos if they didn't agree with what was being said. And the same logic applies all the way back to 1999 when people were posting angry memes about Jar Jar. People weren't doing it just to do it. There was deep-seated emotional hatred behind it all. Hatred entirely stemming from a product which many found to be unacceptable. And I find it quite ironic how much of Hollywood's business model at this point is reliant on whipping up these armies of sync of fan-ic fanboys. All the profit and revenue and merchandising sales from these franchises are driven at their core from a dedicated group of die-hard fans. The people that you as a business can rely on to return time after time to keep buying the movie tickets, to keep paying month after month for the streaming service to watch their favorite show of who knows what. You as the executive sitting up there in your ivory tower, counting all the beans, and pompously boasting to your investors about our quarterly profits are up 8% year over year. Yeah, genius, that's all well and good. Where do you think it all comes from? Who exactly do you think supplies all that juice for the gravy train? I'm telling you what, it's not the average Tom Dick or Harry. It's the people whom you convinced to develop an emotional connection with your product. And as is the case in the modern media landscape, usually a process that you had no involvement in whatsoever. We're rather than making anything worth a fuck on your own. You took the easy route and bought in to the hard work of some actual creative artist with imagination and everything he accomplished long ago. And you took that special bond with the audience that the artist spent the prime of their career delicately crafting. You took that and turned it into just another pile of corporate sludge. And then you turn around and wonder why people get so darn upset over it. And no, no, no, we're well past the point of being able to admit that we screwed up and actually try to come out with a product even halfway decent. No, we've learned that it's simply far easier now to just blame the consumer. Don't like our corporate minstrel show of your once beloved entertainment product? Oh dear, it looks like there's something wrong with you. And it would be one thing. If all this propaganda was simply coming out of these greedy monolithic corporations looking to protect their own business interests. But what's especially disturbing about this whole thing is that this mindset seems to have seeped into the consumer base itself. All the mental gymnastics and gaslighting damn well ended up working on some people. Where whenever you have another one of these spectacular corporate failures coming out on the market, you now have people lining up to tell you that you're not a true fan for complaining about it. Where if you have reservations about this new direction that your favorite brand is being pulled towards that you must have never really liked it in the first place. These greedy pigs have now tricked people into running damage control for them. They tell you to shut your mouth and let people enjoy things. Okay, Mr. Positivity, how about I tell you to let people hate things? In this modern age of subjective relativism where everyone's opinion is equally valid and correct, that means it's just as fair to let people hate things. And that hating a movie is every bit as justifiable as liking it. And maybe if more of you out there learn how to hate movies just as well, you would stop falling for anti-consumer practices that go directly against your own interests because that at the end of the day it's really what all this comes down to. Oh boy, can you imagine how much Chinese scammers on Amazon would love if they just got rid of reviews? No more one star reviews on my defective scam product. And that to me is what a lot of these movies are that deserve to be ridiculed and hated. Studios are coming out with defective products. And while everyone seems to understand how customers have a right to be pissed when they order a defective product off of Amazon, or they download a defective app off the app store, or where they give a one star review to a restaurant, where the chef spits in your food. All of a sudden when you're talking about movies and TV, you're just supposed to sit back and let people enjoy things. It's all of a sudden no longer okay to complain about your defective product. So I guess my whole point with all of this is to say that negativity matters. And when you see a huge negative reception to something, it should be treated like a bunch of alarm bells going off in your ears. You have to realize that people don't choose to react negatively to things, at least not in an overwhelming number of cases. This response comes out of instinct, out of a gut feeling. It's not based on some kind of premeditated conspiracy to tarnish the reputation of some movie. And maybe when the negative response is limited to just one or two people, then you can chalk it off to contrarianism or maybe someone having an exceedingly personal reason for hating something. But when the number of disgruntled customers reaches into the thousands, that is the point where at the very least you have to start paying attention. And again, you don't have to become part of a hive mind and hate something just because others do as well. You are free to enjoy things and like products that other people hate. But don't sit there and act like the hate doesn't exist or that it shouldn't exist or that anyone who does hate this magical product is not sound of mind. I understand that there are many out there who are afraid of being perceived as a negative person. They don't like what negativity implies on their character. But when you're talking about the institutions of society and this doesn't just apply to arts and culture, it applies to the economy, business, politics. Negative feedback is the most valuable feedback that anyone is going to get because without negativity and criticism, nothing has any room for improvement and there is no progress to be made. So just keep that in mind. The next time someone tries to shame you for having a negative opinion about a movie. Negative opinions are natural and they're often times a hell of a lot more useful than the alternative.