Hope that everybody enjoys my homosexual pride hat Oh god, he just killed me welcome back everyone to a special edition of the Damard diary I'm coming to you today as this is being filmed on its Christmas Eve Eve It's Christmas Eve Eve, but it is what I believe is the four-year anniversary of the day that my childhood was officially destroyed forever when I was physically By JJ Abrams. No, no, I'm talking of course about the rise of Skywalker a movie that I've gone on the record in saying multiple times is my most single hated movie ever made and will likely hold that crown until the day I die and it has been Four years four long years since that miserable day actually in the location of this is being filmed not far from here The Tinseltown in Jacksonville, Florida. I walked into some god-forsaken theater in Jacksonville to witness the defining franchise of my childhood need it's bitter and unforgivable and that was the day it all ended my reverence my lifelong childlike reverence for Star Wars flush down the toilet thrown in the trash things haven't been the same since one of the most defining formative experiences of my life and made me look at media and maybe look at everything Completely differently because of Star Wars could be destroyed that badly who knows of any other form of media could be sacred who knows if any form of media could eventually be made totally worthless and just not worth engaging with at all But I've come to learn that when it comes to media movies TV video games music we can define our own value So I for the existential beginning. I'm here with Brian the editor who's working on lots of Emplimated downward diary projects lately. This is a green letter media presentation. Am I green to? Probably not This is half in the spiral now we're recording this before watching the movie after four years I'm finally deciding to give it a rewatch and I wouldn't have done this if it wasn't for the fact that Brian here is also a Star Wars fan has not seen the movie yet see I did the proper thing when I went into the theater I watched the first five minutes I watched them hyperspace jump between like four different planets realized that's Bull and then I left so he's seen the first five minutes. He has not seen the part of the film that Well that remains to be seen and you have not seen the money returned to your bank account because you didn't get a refund Well, I'm hoping to recoup it by making even more Star Wars complaint videos try to get that that ad revenue back Brian here is arguably even bigger of a Star Wars fan than I was and it's honestly in arguable I look around the room. I see Star Wars stuff everywhere. I got Star Wars comic books I have probably the largest Star Wars t-shirt collection. It was the largest in 2010 I have to check again. I got to see if Rancho Obi-Wan has finally hoarded enough shit to finally overcome my record But I've got hundreds of Star Wars t-shirts. I've got tons of plushies. I've got tons of stuff that I've collected I'm a pretty big Star Wars fan, but you know you can't say that owning stuff necessarily makes somebody a bigger fan Because otherwise anybody who's got the Lego Death Star with the 24 mini figures would be in that category and yes, I do have that Well folks in the Star Wars community you may know them as Star Wars t-shirt kid from Star Wars celebration I guess that went a bit viral in the Star Wars community wasn't that viral but go find the podcast I know that when I was at the conventions people were like hey look. It's the Star Wars shirt kid So I was on at least two podcasts at that time They had these podcast booths and people invited me over There were people who recognized me because they saw me in little clips because there was like this contest thing at the time Where they were like how are you celebrating Star Wars celebration six and I had this like time lapse thing that I did Where we're all of the different Star Wars shirts. Oh my god. I was so cringy. I don't even like thinking about it Well, you know Brian Star Wars didn't have to become cringy, but sadly that is the reality We now inhabit a reality that you for the time being have managed to avoid but it ends today I'm gonna warn you. This is your last chance to back out I was I don't blame him. I don't blame him folks. I don't blame him He's driving away. He's driving away might have to do this review solo This movie is a Star Wars fan destroyer. I'm sure there's plenty of other fandoms out there There's plenty of other people who kind of witnessed media. They enjoyed consuming. They saw it crash and burn Sometimes you got to take all the yellow are behind the shed. I had it happen four years ago Many Star Wars fans had it happen four years ago. Today is Brian's day of reckoning Maybe it doesn't destroy his love of the franchise Maybe he'll come out of it still liking Star Wars, but all I know is that for myself and a lot of other former Star Wars fans This was the complete point of irredeemability the fact that this thing exists It is now unjustifiable to me to revere this franchise in any way a huge part of myself and my childhood And something I really enjoyed engaging with was ruined. I guess it's time to relive the experience I'm scared. That's all I got also at some point in time if something is really bad I'm gonna pretend to kill myself with this you're gonna be doing that 40 or 50 times We got pulled up here on Disney Plus our money is going directly in the Kathleen Kennedy's bank account as we speak Don't worry. I'm gonna steal it back when I kill her Oh, it's the Lucasfilm logo. That's how you know things are going to be good I yes the the opening text which once was a source of Gidey excitement because now it become a bad omen a sign of horrible things to come. Oh come on It can't be that bad. Well, just wait for the opening exposition right here Rise up Skywalker and not his junk. So going into this Luke Skywalker just died Yeah, so wait a minute. This doesn't make any sense because race not a Skywalker anyway issue The galaxy has heard a mysterious broadcast a threat of revenge in the sinister voice of emperor Palpatine They're just gonna come out ripped the bandaid off immediately and for Palpatine is back fault It's not even gonna be a surprise they reveal it in the opening crawl Well, in fact, everyone knew it going to the movie because he was in the trailers But they couldn't think of a satisfying villain wait a minute. It says the phantom emperor. Is he the real phantom medis? Emperor Palpatine is back any reason why? No He's just here and we're just gonna get it out of the way. They're telling us he's here in the exposition dump You know, maybe that's better. Maybe that's better than if they just made it a surprise Is there ever an answer as to who these guys are? Did I mention that emperor Palpatine is back? I assume that emperor element is back Oh Come on nobody is that good of a pilot a tie fighters don't have trips like that Got the giant threatening space triangle. Why is the planet evil This planet is like designed to be evil. There's like lightning underground and What is this why does he need his lightsaber on if he's just going to talk to the temper or whatever what yeah I mean, yeah, I mean once again. It looks cool, but I made Smoke dude Oh, yeah, let's look at the strobe lights for this dude that that was funny They cut they cut they cut to a slightly closer shot of space Like some kind of bee movie What is this a fucking horror movie? Here's something you were talking about where to get the release in China They can't show them as a ghost I guess it's like a force ghost which is what's been established. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on hold on hold on Oh, yeah, he's physically resurrecting a fleet of 10,000 star destroyers each with its own death star laser out of the core of the planet Wait a minute What Wait, no, hold on I have to pause this Then wait a minute The only planet this could possibly be is Kuwatt because that's the only planet in which that many star destroyers would be within that proximity of each other Do you know who that is? No, who is the star is It's the star destroyer production planet. It's where they manufactured all of the large scale ships It's also where they manufactured parts for the death star there were no mass crashes and if there were They would not be assembled that well So assuming that this is Kuwatt no, this is its own planet bride. It's exacl and it's apparently an evil planet And I guess there's like no workforce or like anything to be seen But the emperor has been hiding here the whole time Oh, it's the events of return of the Jedi and he's assembled a fleet of 10,000 star destroyers each of which has its own death star laser cannon attached Oh, don't you know that if you put your star destroyer in the ground it duplicates like plants Well, you see they made the model once and then they copy and paste it it like 10,000 times using the force in a nice or rate Yeah, and palpatine's black palpatine's back and the planet black even more inclusivity palpatine is black We're like two minutes in and this movie already doesn't make any sense It's kind of comically ostentatious and just like how bold it's being with the complete retardation of the plot So palpatine I guess cloned himself which I guess makes sense As he was in charge of the clone wars, but if he's a clone why does he the old decrepit version of himself when he be the version of himself in the prequel trilogy before his face got burned from base when you deflecting the floor slightening and burning off his face why does he like the evil palpatine if he's a clone Oh, it's because it's recognizable because that's what people know palpatine has because they couldn't come up with an actual original Or you know what there could be another option it could be that when he decided to go in for his cloning salon appointment I have an appointment done Camino. Oh jeez. Okay. I have to take over the senate. All right. I'm gonna delay this appointment You decided to put it off. Well actually you have to remember his brain is still the same brain from the end of episode six If I'm not mistaken, I think I saw some gag video where someone said like he's just on an asteroid somewhere And he's like astraly projecting all of this shit I miss the simplicity in the series when when someone died they're actually dead, you know I mean people just clone themselves were in the bag Why don't know the Jedi have like backup clones of themselves like in Rick and Morty when Rick dies He just has a clone so like no one can actually die You can show people being killed by it doesn't mean anything if we pause to make comments You're right. This is going to take 10 hours This is already just like absurd nothing in Star Wars has ever been this absurd up until this point Like you literally just sum in 10,000 Star Destroyers out of like the planet's crust This was not foreshadowed at all and anyway you're starting off your film your capstone to the trilogy Which is usually supposed to make you the most money and be like the best part of the trilogy was something so ridiculous and bombastic That it already makes the whole thing look like a joke Oh do you remember this? Oh, this is so cool. It's a callback Didn't everyone just die in the previous movie? Why are they more somber? It's like a week later they got over it I hope you fixed that surge Yeah, we are Who's who's that? I don't remember him I don't know what he appears I've got to have R2D2 there for some reason Wait, where are they? I don't even know what they're doing right now Bullio, good to see you Bullio I'm a new ally A spy in the first door Hey Hey, then you're supposed to be shooting at those guys No So much worse than I thought it was Oh my god Did they use hyperspace? Yes, they're hyperspace jumping from one plane to another that's not possible You need the Navi computer to calculate where you are first and on top of that if you travel at the speed of life around Anything planet within 10,000 kilometers you were going to plummet into the planet service at the speed of Life and it bounced like Four planets, what is this the fourth? Hey, buddy, it looks cool In fact look that they destroyed the big alien. Oh my god Jesus You could but you could like turn that into like a cool ride like they have the minions ride at universal For a ride that's fine even on the ride they don't do that. I went on star tours look. It's the avatar Be with me Okay, ruin it with a corny line Oh, so this is the point that this is like new territory for you like you walked out Yeah, I walked out so I haven't seen the Letty all writing where there's potentially dramatic scene that can set an emotional tone But you don't have faith in your own products So you got to cut it off with some snarky thing that would get a cheap pop out of the audience And it just makes the overall product crap because like you can tell like you the writers don't we don't even have faith in the product Her lightsaber was just on and then it turned off and then now it's on again I'm sure that they had a good reason for that change That's apprentice training right there. Oh my god. Oh, yeah, they had her wearing the helmet like Luke did that in Episode four. That's a good point. This is a boring scene because we already know she has like immense Forcibility's aka plot convenience. Yeah, because the writers write themselves into a corner So let's just say and this is this is like concurrent throughout the whole Neutrality they write themselves in a corner and then they have rain come up with like some extreme Adaptation of the force that's never even been seen before in any of the other movies But she's also like an amateur who's still training. Yeah, she lifted up the equivalent of like 10 x-wings of rocks Like I know she can't even defeat one training module. Are you kidding me? The conversation about like the Mary Sue stuff That's all tired and played out, but it comes from a reasonable observation people have Where the progression of race skill is just inconsistent throughout this trilogy Why did she just destroy the training module? Isn't that a total waste? I guess they have unlimited resources even though they're Resistance and they've just nearly all got wiped out in the last movie But it doesn't matter because uh, oh as we'll see we have more friends than the galaxy that can help join us and fight The entire conflict of the last movie is just pointless. I made a trilogy with like two and a half different directors I'm not gonna create a cohesive product. I will earn your brother Sabah That's not her hand is it That I'm sure it's a body double with and the deepfaker face or they just used footage that they already had that was like cut Now they made is a deep fake the technology hasn't come a long way since the grandmaw tartan deep fake That was not actually a deep fake. That was a CG. Oh, it was CG. It's hard to tell at this point. Yes, Master She just called Leia master. It's a Leia's a Jedi master According to this because she used the force in space once to save her ass in one of the worst scenes in cinematic history You light speed script they just called it Somehow Palpatine returned somehow Palpatine returned this millennial writing that's infesting new films You can get away within Marvel because they're on earth still and there's like humans This is supposed to be a fantastical universe. It just takes you out of it. It reminds you you're watching actors They hear them say stuff like this all these little stupid writing conventions It's just done if you watch the old Star Wars. They don't do that It helps make the dialogue more convincing and rest distracting No, I completely agree with you like there's just so much awful dialogue I'm trying to also like pay attention to it But it's like I feel like I'd be criticizing every line by this point the trilogy the characters are not strong They've not been set up in a way where they have strong arcs and their motivations are clearly defined and you care about What they're doing so that that caused the dialogue to be boring Overall the entire arc plot structure of the story get ready for 20 more minutes of convoluted expedition dump that kind of But doesn't really make sense and have the gears spin your head trying to justify like why any of this is actually happening In the previous scene. Did you see that she was opening one of the old Jedi texts one of the ones that they were supposed to burn in the last movie a Vogue book sacred Jedi text Not about money That's about The message everything burns. I guess they got it from somewhere else Burn all the books we must they checked one of them out Rose last chance. Oh rose tika who's barely in this movie because the perception against her is still poor in the last one Also because China doesn't want to see Interracial relationship between Chinese woman and black men actually I don't think she was Chinese. I think she was Vietnamese and they knew that and that's part of why they didn't like it because it was marketed as if she was Chinese They set her up to be such a huge part of the last movie she's barely in this movie spoiler by the way as if anyone cares What was the point of handing off the lightsaber and handing it back because you needed to use up the footage that you still had of this data So you can get a shot for the trailer. This has got to be a deep figure right here. They definitely didn't have a clip up them hungry Are you one of those single peer people? I mean is supposedly emotional scene and like yeah, I was about to say that these characters are not well written So it doesn't feel like anything it doesn't know I don't think it's like all you have right Ray and lia's relationship was so strong before that scene that it really matters What are they putting his mask back together just make him a new one you know playing at the eggs Yeah, no, we got monkey boy up in here. Monkey Jones can't be out in Star Wars Okay, this movie makes me want to go eight. It's a monkey elf I kind of like the cyber monkey. That's the only thing I've liked about this movie so far And I'm not even a big monkey guy He's got the fucking the bright red gorilla glue holding together his mask. I guess it's supposed to look like that Did he just slap that guy's head down on the table? You know somebody gets to clean that right? Could have just said that he killed him kind of gross and unsanitary What does he want to intimidate them dude? He literally has the force for what it's worth. It's in character He's like like unprofessional about it like goes about this leadership. How is the first order not one already? Oh Any world Was there a motivated reason why you did that I wasn't able to tell because the dialogue was not engaging me Obviously that's supposed to be an homage to Vader choking the guy for making fun of his force powers a new hope But that was like a motivated character scene. He just did that for no reason Because it's supposed to remind you of the old movie Oh god they're in Israel It's festival is known for that it's colorful kites and it's delectable sweets See like why do they have to do that? Like what what is wrong with what he said? He's explaining where they are in a place that they don't know. Yeah, but they're like you're looking in like you some kind of retard Like shut up white boy that character be will become more insulting later on as you'll see don't tell me that they raped my boy see three See in this culture instead of giving them a circumcision they cut off the tip of their nose I'm sure there's some Wikipedia article about that six pages long Wait, they they do look at that they're no their noses are stump. No, there's no way that can be Gaslighting Are you telling me that they're not racist? The majority of aliens in the original trilogy all just racist yeah, these guys look like Remember the guy is Anakin gets in the pod racer for the Jewish merchants. Oh, you're talking about Wato. Oh, yeah, Wato these guys look like Wato You He's standing here like showing off his Lego model that he just built showing up his giant cloak and vaccine. I see through the cracks in your mask You wanted There's literal cracks and his mask did they make that design choice just because of that line in the script What oh well they established they can Physically transport projects through the stellar medium using their dyad powers in the last Jedi Again, you can't think of a more elegant way for them to find out where they are you have to have the character physically take and object Through like space and time. How did they get there that fast? I guess that was a soldier on outpost Okay, maybe why couldn't he just use the force to find out where they were because if you were able to communicate with her What is there like some weird wireless signal that connects them from anywhere and why can't why can't they use the force to tell where palpatine What he's standing out of the crowd another guy from the old movies. He's just here. He's just here great. I believe that Okay, he's randomly up this cultural festival People in the audience who've studied this more was there any setup or like Digetic reason for landau to be here did they like walk in there because they knew he was gonna be in there or what did they did he invite them in Like was there some line you miss is like there an old friend of mine will be waiting or something like that No, he's just there for no reason The thing you're gonna start to realize about this plot is that it's completely jacked up and frenetic with the pacing Where to disguise the fact that they don't have an actual satisfying story with arcs and and he's sort of character development or Just a satisfying problem solving they just throw a bunch of different sequences over and over and over and over and over rapid fire Machine gun style and they hope that just like the visual noise is enough to entertain you and make you forget about the fact that None of the things none of the events that are happening have any logical bearing on anything The giant floating triangle How do you know how to do that wouldn't fin go that oh is someone skilled yes I know in the summer movie the two of them literally hacked into a tie fighter together Here's the toggle on the left to switch between missiles cannons and magposses aside on the right to aim triggers to fire Very complicated did the writers of this movie even watch the old movies like I'm a Lenni O'Riding you could just let the scene play out normally and just have it be like oh that's cool You have to vocally confirm it because I guess the audience is too stupid to comprehend what they're seeing with their eyes One bullet from that wasn't to explode the whole thing Oh Pretty big design flaw on your futuristic space equipment where a simple grappling hook could cause the whole thing to be Completely destroyed. There's plenty of things that I could criticize in that scene But I'm willing to give that credence because there are things that we use in the modern day that could be destroyed by a simple grappling I'm a bride and this is supposed to be the type three cartage of civilization the power of the destroy an entire planet Yeah, but I mean we have the they're being they're being they're being floored by grappling hook Oh, come on. We got detected destroyed entire planet, but we could be thwarted by a grappling hook Oh big of a funny explosion Oh, that looks bad that looks bright and are you getting a sinking feeling that maybe Star Wars might be doomed? What are you talking about? No great. They're dead. You're just gonna suffocate to death I hate the CG in this shot right here. Yeah, I look pretty jank so wait hold on. Oh, why is this not full of that quicksand shit? Is the quicksand shit just magical that it only lets no no? Okay, Brian don't ask questions. We're on to the next scene It doesn't matter. They're in a giant pool of quicksand now. They're in an empty dry cave And for some reason the quicksand is not flowing and inundating this empty happiness space which is under it We're on to the next scene. It doesn't matter You're right potentially dangerous and threatening scene for the protagonist and now it just doesn't matter They're back to normal and she just turns on the lightsaber. Oh, I What a funny gag she turns on the lightsaber. He turns on his flashlight That's something that I feel like it almost worked I mean like a lightsaber is like kind of a hazardous thing to have out So it seems kind of dumb of ready to do that just Using the lightsaber as a light source when both of them clearly have flashlights that they prepare to bring whatever Just don't think about anything nothing is supposed to make any sense. What's that? Speeder an old one. This was Oji's it's Hitler's Mercedes Benz right there. Yeah, Hitler's a Sith just so you know the Sith are bad. Oh I Don't like bones. What is this ghost busters? Oh, it's a Scooby-Doo. What is that line man? Wait a minute I thought C3Po's arm was red since episode seven yet the red arm so you're telling us the one time we need you to talk you can't I am mechanically and capable of speaking translations from Sith another contrived plot thing That could have easily been cut out, but they have to move the plot along to different things to give the impression that the story is actually evolving What if you're gonna pull an avatar and touch hairs with this thing and the two of them are just gonna get along Oh my god. Are you sure you haven't seen this before? No Shut the fuck up. Are you ready for some more Ray power level power scaling? I'm fucking mad Just cuz I already know what's gonna happen now cuz you said that You understand me if we touch each other Now to train your dragon it's it's a bit further than that. Oh Oh You know that would have been convenient for all those people who died in like the last movie But it's a good thing. She just now figured out how to use it on this random snake creature We've only just begun run. We've only just begun how far we into this movie an hour and 48 minutes left. Oh my god What was the point of that she has a new power despite struggling to kill a training module She can now physically heal The wounding damn you know anathen must be pissed that this is a thing I mean you can just heal flesh he could have just gone back to normal I mean up her emperor palpateen couldn't figure out how to do this. Oh, I guess the Sith are evil so they don't have healing powers Yeah, I'll throw us in the pits of greek greek the pits of greek I want a dumb name. I'm sharing this a 17 page wikipedia article about their adventure in the pits of greek Oh another great scene is coming by the way. I hope you're ready Gotta get rid of all those space spider webs that are only in strategic places where the camera is gonna move through so that they can use it to like Oh, well, it's the audience supposed to know that it's old and dilapidated You didn't see it Well, no, of course he could not have met giant You know what's funny when I met Peter Mehu and Kenny Baker they were both sitting next to each other They would be around each other because he's like the shortest because he used to fit inside of the little r2d2 Machine because he's tiny and then he's of course like seven feet tall seeing them right next to each other was like this This is wacky thing Shooie what happened wait, why did he go off wandering on his own again? Was there a reason given for that to go get re apparently? I'm trying to read the dialogue here, but it's also not very engaging and he conveniently had the sit tag I've seen this from the trailer. She does some stupid backflip Again, tactically, none of this really makes any sense. He's gonna like run her over like this GTA I think we have lasers blast her What are you doing? What are you above that because you're a Sith? Okay, she's clearly got something planned. He's still shooter Hi, Lord, what are you doing? What's your ankle it's gonna happen He's just dead They got Joey Here comes a top 10 great scene in the movie No, they don't they don't got Shooie. Oh, she's gonna shit her pants and then they're gonna get away No, even better. We should just slam it into them. They match the most stupid thing you can possibly think of She's gonna slam it into She's gonna slam the ship that has her friend no It gets better it gets better I have to expect Finn to join in I Would have been good but it's something else it's something else What is she shit oh my oh my did she kill Joey What the fuck what the fuck why is everyone just standing around in isolated places They could all just be killed bro. She just killed Joey. Oh once again everyone's attacking one at a time They were all just standing around for like two minutes and they could have all been killed But Kylo decides to go in without his massive entourage of tie fighter pilots So Chooie's just dead do you think he's dead? No, I don't But clearly they just acted like he was dead. They're gonna do something later he comes back They're gonna be like chooie. Oh, she's gonna find the bird corpse of chooie and just heal him back to life That power came from me Finn never thinks you don't know Been to kill me They can't kiss because apparently he and power gay right? I thought he was in love with Rose Teacon the last movie or did that just get wrecked on for China I don't remember but people were saying that him and power are gay now or something You know, she looked like there like a meth head who was that a meth she had like that It broke back a valuable prisoner Is that Tom Hanks? Guess what he was on the other ship Oh my god talk about having her cake and eating it too. Oh my god He's alive. Oh, we couldn't have we couldn't have a character impactfully die or have you believe a character is dead for five minutes? They all like turn towards him Let's do that You see like this is just dumb stalling for time now they have to go to a whole another planet A whole other set piece just so that they can read the stupid code that we've just had access to for the last 25 minutes Is this where this droid gets introduced Is this how robots breathe they just like stick their penises and things? What is the point of this do we need another cute droid to sell toys for? They shouldn't have brought Bernie from the Wally franchise into this Yeah, then the same universe now every Disney properties in the same universe You're the one they're looking for bounty for her just might cover us Dude you have a blast or just blow her head off nothing you care But I think you're okay, okay And just like that the conflict is all we think that at that point she would pull the trigger as soon as the lightsaber was off That would be the smart thing because she supposed to be like some hardcore Spice-run hole bounty hunter only cares about my profits now. I'm helping the heroes. Oh, she kicked my associates in the dick. Okay. I like you now Was that monster's eyes nipples Oh There's a lot of special designs in there They're giving him a lobotomy translated from sift. That's it. Yeah, that's what we need when has a sift ever spoken sift When is a non-sift or spoken sift He's talking about the French Looks at my friends. See like are they your friends. They were clowning him the entire time We're talking about how like useless he was the whole time, but you're supposed to have an emotionally poignant scene Well, so they're gonna have him commit space suicide robot suicide general part this is named general pride What as as in like white pride or something no no pride as in like gay pride. Oh another gay character Another day in Israel I Free passage through any blockade landing privileges any vessel. Oh another plot convenience Delivered straight to him in a chucky cheese token You're gonna need this for later when we run out of things to do to get characters from one place to another Okay, I like this road So the only thing I've liked about this movie so far other than that the monkey The monkey elves This droid doesn't even serve a functional purpose Sell ton of toys off of them time my parents left they won't want that shit I remember raised parents Oh, I think that's supposed to be her whole stick in the last movie They're just being brought up now for the first time. Wait. What the fuck is his eyes are red? Oh my god. It's a dark three p.o 3 6 I'm sorry, so in order to translate the Sith it has to like come back out of the speaker in some evil demonic voice Is that really necessary because the Sith are evil you see Chooie what about him? He's a brain chip. Oh, so Chooie has force powers so she can She can tell where any random person is anywhere Move your metal ass Fight my tiny middle ass Take your chucky cheese token. Sorry. I don't think I can take this dude You were just trying to kill him like five minutes ago. I'm sure that wasn't even five minutes ago So it was about seven minutes ago. It's okay. He's gonna get his Bitcoin and then they're gonna be able to board the ship Even though he's probably one of the most wanted people by the first order. No one's gonna recognize him Yeah, Bitcoin. Let's feel so stupid. Wait, I didn't realize they're are they boarding the ship right now bro They literally gave them plot convenience in a coin. That's crazy, dude We're just gonna board the first order ship. I think I think by this point I was mentally checking out and I've had like large stretches of amnesia from what is transpired in this film There's no one else watching the hanger. There's nobody else watching the hanger But also the hangers are not unique. There should be different hangers in Star Wars. They should not all look like the same imperial hanger Drop your weapons. It's okay that way here It's okay that you're here. It's good. Does she do that to us? Okay, actually I do like the line Can she do that to us because that is something that I have asked that's that's someone justifiable How incompetent are the first order? I get that the empire was like this in the first movie is this an unmanaged ship? We're all the soldiers. Yeah, they're just freely roaming around the halls and they encounter like one group of soldiers But whatever we got to get the dagger back or two leaves or whatever even though we could have just written the script more cleanly So as to not get in the stupid convoluted reality breaking situation in the first place Is he the only prisoner on the ship? I guess like is there any tension at all? Is there like any reason to believe that they're just not gonna mow down every single enemy in their way and get to where they have to go It just makes sequences like this boring. They were coming up from behind. They thought to blast With it. Oh my god. Oh no. Look. He got shot. They were probably thinking like this is too ridiculous We have to at least give the impression of danger one time. They literally can't you can't just run on an imperial ship completely Unopposed and not have any resistance. Oh My god. Oh No, they're getting caught. I guess it really is over for them. Wow. I guess I forgot that scene happened They're just gonna get off the ship anyway, so it's just basically stalling for time I think that justifies a little bit of their call of duty moment Ray You my buddy the birds they still is You Just out in the open wherever you are You are hard to find. What do you mean wherever you are? Don't you recognize where she is? I've been in your hand That's rape that's mind-rating Wait, so if she's a palpatine did palpatine like space rape her mom? Maybe Hoppity didn't like use comics He wanted to feel the full force of the experience You know terminators in the same It must be very confusing for their sword fight where they like keep flickering back and forth between backgrounds You Why include that Oh no there goes Darth Vader's mask now it's on the same as if Anakin Skywalker can get distracted anymore I already said this before I hate that they keep using the Vader mask thing because what they really were trying to do with this Was they wanted to explain to the audience that they could not write a better villain than Darth Vader by writing a villain who instead was a whiny little Bitch who complains about how he can't be as good as Darth Vader and then he's constantly comparing himself And then he actually just ends up not being as good. He never overcomes right part of his character motivation He never overcomes that part of his character. He's boring He's a petulant child who just like rages at things Oh, but he teases that expedition jumps to make us feel like the story is more interesting than it is They should have at least I'm the spy what we don't have much time what I knew it. Oh you did not. Oh, you know What the It's okay. It's okay. The plot requires No, you have to ship in like one minute. No, this is bullshit This is stupid Also, do you like the subtle delivery of I'm the spy? No That was so retarded Honestly, I think that was the bigger plot twist than anything Ryan Johnson spit in our face Blossom in the arm. Well, they'll know No one saw that have they don't have like CCTV in this futuristic space station. I don't care if you win I need Kylo rent to lose Okay, I guess that makes a little bit more sense You got a kiss on me Are you sure you've seen this? Shut the fuck up shut the fuck up. No, they don't Shut the fuck up Okay, you're trolling you're Yeah, I'm trolling okay You're his granddaughter you are a palpatine You're a palpatine Okay, I got this plot for me palpatine loved hookers what is she gonna like commit suicide by jumping off the end Please do that. It'll make for a more interesting movie This reminds me of Star's Valorant 2 we can like exit the ship outside of the hangar And then jump and fall into the void remember battlefront 2 good time You know Brody the super glue is head back together, too I forget where did that scar come from. I don't remember where scar came from It's double idiot What just when you need the injection of soy it's here What we're gonna turn up the paper pols should just to blow back all of the stormtroopers at once I ran Kylo and not gonna horrifically burn for some reason this movie is gayer than the Rainbow sour patch airheads nothing is anything wrong with that. Get me the supreme data. Yes Just Just shoot me so it makes it look like I got away. Oh, yeah, then they just killed him anyway So what was the point of that it just makes him look dumb and then it makes the rest of the first order look dumb that they were fooled by him at all Rave palpatine should be called the last palpatine That'd be too much of a spoiler I pissed everybody they already put it in the opening crawl and had him in all the promotion material and the trailers What's a little more they should have literally had some gay line you weren't the last Skywalker You would last palpatine Did they just have four planets in one shot? They're in the endore system again because they have to go to the remains of the Destroyed death star. I've seen this shot before it's retarded. That's not how the death star would have collapsed into the planet into the ocean No less this is decades after the fact you really think it's gonna hold that much structural integrity after I just blew the Up shut up shut the Oh here comes another good part If get ready Oh, that's so stupid As if palpatine knew that this was just gonna magically work They they knew the exact this thousand-year-old Zipblade knew the exact configuration that the The second death star would fall into the ocean with and if it confirms that it is in fact the second death star Yo surfs up There's something inside there we need I can take you there by water. Don't you guys have space ships? We go first like tomorrow. We can't wait that long. We don't have the time or the choice They can't get another ship no one this planet has a ship are there like speeders and star wars that levitate above the ground and they're fairly common I'm like every planet when they levitate across the water these people don't have speeders either How do they know what anything is it's like a primitive remedial society? Well, they wouldn't have fit in in Israel everything is an Israel Palestine joke more Israel Palestine is real. We don't have desert planets and star wars. Of course brought me here Promethrie and Poe. Do you say that like your sure it's real? It's real. What? He is the force to Or his rage is crossing the ocean with the force I mean this one why not just make her literally levitate across like princess layeth The last Jedi why are they still so concerned about Ray when it's clear that she can just magically get out of any situation or peril as she's ever encountered But oh no a few waves that's too dangerous for her and act concerned I think it feels like not just going from point A to point B 17 different times basically no resistance What are you talking about there's a whole bunch of resistance? Oh, yeah, I mean they almost all died in the last movie I was just trying to make a bad pun because they're the they're the resisted I'm sorry See it's funny your likes It's like the old death star. It's kind of cool, right? Oh, it's kind of like the uh the old star destroyer she's to climb around it. Yeah, it's like It's like lando was flying around in the interior and now she's physically climbing it You think with all of her climbing experience she would have been more careful to lay all of her weight on that one It's okay. We're just patting off the run times and more what she like did all this stuff But she's just gonna fall here. I would love a movie like that Where it's like the plot twist is that they die in the most benign boring way possible The way that you do in a video game look it's the emperors old throne room remember that from the last movie Oh, dude, I remember they're playing the same music you to make sure you remember because they couldn't think of anything new or interesting Yeah, we got it in the door opens automatically. Why you're still power in the ship. I guess oh wait No, a great scene is about to occur That's why you know I'm confident that this movie's gonna turn itself around I still believe that Star Wars can be saved. I do believe it can Does it actually feel like anything has happened to this point? We're about to enter the third act It feels like almost no progress has been made to the actual plot. Well, I'll tell you what We're three fifths of the way through the movie the ending is gonna be great the last two fifths of the movie are great The first three fifths It was compromised because they realized that the last hour is so good starting now see plot twist There's more women in Star Wars I just think Recognize her it's worth raid What she has pointy-t what she has the years I thought that was her mom for a second see this is it's the three fifths compromised And then the other two fifths or How did he get here? Sorry, what even was that was that a holocron? No, that was like the there's like another one of those things That's supposed to lead you to the emperor the whole the whole point of this has been going from a place to a place to a place to a place Trying to get the holocron so they can find out how to go to the emperor because it's not on the existing star maps Okay, here's that other scene that I've seen from the commercial. I mean, it sure looks cool Like a cool place to fight. Yeah, this is the lightsaber battle on the rms Titanic as it's sinking very classic as my hopes and dreams for Star Wars Not being cringe imagine that out imagine that been running out and screaming ray Doing the same exact thing for three movies and he hasn't changed. He's still so good for that at some point is just a total joke Oh, this is just segregation. He's gonna shout ray one more time Dude, that's all he does. He's like a Pokemon Oh my god, dude, the scene is like no dramatic way because it's unclear what any of these characters Actually wants and I was just stalling because we know Palpatine's the real villain so it's like not gonna accomplish anything Bro, what was the point of that? I honestly don't like how they've made lightsabers less crisp They're more sparkling now. There used to be the sharpness to the earlier ones because that's all they can physically accomplish with the Technology whereas now they can make them look like there's all of these flame particles coming off. They're all wiggly They're wiggly and I don't like that. I will say the VFX artist who started that I do respect him He's actually Andrew Kramer from video co-pilot. Did you know that? Ain't what's up Andrew Kramer here video co-pilot dot net ray. She's finally dead something that should have happened in the first act of the last movie And she's evil What? Here's what I don't get if she had just like stabbed him outright that could have potentially been an interesting Compel and scene but you got to constantly interject all the other old characters You know what the new characters are doing like imagine if uh when Luke is fighting Vader at the end of Empire Strikes Back that Obi-Wan randomly comes in and says Ooh you have to dodge lift now dodge right. I'm gonna heal him now It's just like I'm tired of thinking about the old characters when this movie is supposed to be about the new characters So I guess was we always emotional scene she died But honestly, I don't care that she died because she should have been dead at the beginning of the last Jedi Where it made the most logical sense for her character to die. Oh, but no one would say He's looking at me uh Has Kylo won a single fight in this entire trilogy He has to be made just like the biggest Gibroni out of any character in the show This show he's such a cuck. Oh my god Just got killed and then respawned. He should basically just teed back here And it's called dolly lobby because he's getting humiliated It's like no wonder they have to bring back Palpatine as the main villain right as the main villain right Haha Haha You're just awkwardly staring for like minutes. It'll be really funny as if she just woke up. She would like I gotta see Oh my god dude damn people are so sad that like this 86 year old woman died. I can't believe it. Hey kid What? Who's who what who do you think it is? Okay Look we haven't been reminded of the old cast enough to this guy's like schizophrenia He needs to get checked out. It's like having visions where he's talking to people through space and time And all people have died Is he gonna kill him again? Yeah That would have actually been good Yeah Doody's such a cuck. Oh my god He looks like such a soy boy Such a little cry baby I know what I have to do but I don't know if I have the strength to do stop crying god dammit Isn't it that that's the same line he said before in the seventh movie? I know what I have to do but I don't know if I have to start to do it Can't write anything new it all is to be based on something else Yeah, is he gonna hug him this time instead of kill him? Is he gonna blow his brains out? He just comes out. I mean, there's nothing else for this character to do at this point Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha You idiot you're gonna need that for later, but and then his dad's just gone so it's like fuck why did I do that? Dude, he's just schizophrenic. What is this man? Go therapy? Yeah, the main villain was supposed to be caring about the first time we're seeing him in an hour and 40 minutes Has he been in contact with the first order this whole time or is it just now happening? I want to take a moment to acknowledge the previous Star Wars movies Let's ignore the giant electro dick that was just on screen there. How about the first order having some nice women and power? You're not discriminating by gender That's great. Dude Do you think Bobu got out of that alive? There's a 9-11 in every single one of these There was one 9-11 that happened in the first six movies and then since these new three have come out There's been one in like every episode the the cup shot which blows up six different planets or something like that in Episode seven of the the hyperspace jump in episode eight What now I remember Rose Tika Did you like this is like her second line in an hour and 40 minutes when she was supposedly an integral part of the last film Don't you like all this resources to build up these characters give them screen time just to have them be irrelevant or dead getting me the most This dinosaur is back again. He's in a Star Trek outfit because he's over this shit You cannot have a character from the old cast not on screen for five minutes. Let's look a little book over here This is Star Wars the magic of myth right here so much of what inspired the original six movies was mythology So much of what George Lucas had written was based off of uniforms from Nazis or things like that old kings Legacies you have thousands of years of history that used to influence What Star Wars was and then I'm looking at all this where do you think the porgs came from in history? Where do you think that came from I'll tell you where it came from didn't come from any myth didn't come from any history Any sort of respect for the universe in which we live in and using that to try and inspire this moral that somebody had created No, instead they threw out any myth and instead thought Well, you know you couldn't have had all the other old characters without having Luke in here as well Another thing that basically recons the entire last film and changes his characterization thus making the whole last Jedi and Luke's arc and last Jedi Pointless I get that people didn't like the last Jedi But I would have preferred for it to be meaningful and have sequentially amounted to something rather than just walking it all back here And saying like okay, sorry Ryan Johnson was a mistake Luke is back to being optimistic or whatever in his sacrifice just meaningless Is that it's like Anakin's light saber I guess no, that's not Anakin's lightsaber. Oh yeah, this training. We never got to see Got you some albums just this random exposition dump scene none of this feels like it means anything I think I had so they had lightsaber training the old time Why didn't she get her ass on the battlefield? She's dressed like an assassin's creed character right now No, she was going through a hermit phase for like two minutes And it was like do not do that. I didn't even recognize that's what was happening Oh, and you got to lift the x-wing up For the 7000 time Remember the x-wing being lifted out of the dagobus want remember the x-wing being lifted out of the dagobus I do remember that and now Luke is doing it. That's really See because Yoda did it before in front of Luke you you soy people have done this stop stop Equating a good movie with references. What are you talking about? This is great He just lifted the x-wing you people you brain-rodden millennials have done this mr. Lemon This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Why can't you smile with me? Is he gonna like sting him and his whole memory comes back? Yep? It's literally doesn't it didn't even matter. Oh, what a what a worthy sacrifice Malware bites. I don't know that that was in the Star Wars movie. This movie is malware. It's trying to warn us I Look she's wearing the helmet that Luke wants Oh my god, they're in like some intestines The hell is this it's Star Wars war and we go together we go together we kiss I fight for my friends Come on buddy. We need you Well at least they made chui still depressed that's accurate. They don't just like have him move on He's the only character who's remained with his emotions and he's the one who lick literally only speaks and growls It's because they couldn't ruin his dialogue with crappy idioms and snappy comebacks because he doesn't speak right yeah We think kidding the cannons might take night the main reactors. God she's so hot God I want to buy a toy Admiral Akbar's cousin is that Admiral Akbar's cousin they're all in CG now. It's just like oh look at the CG there I was bad. They're trying to give the impression of the end of return of the Jedi by having a bunch of people who look like It had an AI you had Dolly mini tried to redraw Admiral Akbar, but slightly different and you just have the same old-ass characters Lay I never did she literally lie down and die like 20 minutes ago I think there was a purpose for that. I just don't remember what it was. I don't think any of us cared Oh, no my two favorite children are fighting I got to die and remind them to have like a little we are the world moment There's this focus on layup the tent of four is here why Why The shots coming isn't it the big shot where there's so many Ficking ships it's retarded. I think I remember seeing a little behind the scenes thing on this shot They got the X-wing the wideway got a one no one has made any new ships and well the last 40 canonical years They got the Z-wing they got it why dude we get it There's stuff from the old movies dude. It's so embarrassing. Oh my god It's an embarrassing lack of imagination or just the hope that these brain-rotted Soy millennials who eat up whatever slop that Disney puts out for them and clap rate 100% of rotten tomatoes 10 out of 10 on IMDB and go on Twitter and reply to anyone Causes film rightfully shit so you can sit there and point at the screen and Saw out you bunch of Soil-it-drinking soy-facing F**k we got to put the tent of four in there to remind you the old movies Oh, are you assuming that all of them can pilot their way through this? F**king mess. Oh, yeah, all that stuff. They said about solar winds It's not it's not too hard apparently they just go because they need a B from point A to point B I'm sorry. Are they all doing a hyperspace jump right now into the atmosphere? Great now now they'll probably all get obliterated by this massively overmashed fleet, okay? I'm sorry looking at the close they are to the clouds. I think they all just pulled out of light speed Within that a lot of distance. Oh my god. That's worse than earlier. That's worse than the that they like They did the hyperspace jump to like five different planets. That was bad enough, but all of these Ooh the Palpatine theme is playing now He is a bunch of What a narcissist he's got so many statues of himself. I would only have one statue of myself Did he have like one giant stone mason or like 10,000 regular size stone mason? They'll use the force. Oh, yeah, this planet is just made by the force like the force can create an evil planet now I scoped did them with the force I scoped did them in my image Which have the source of navigation signal to this ship like the navigation signal needs to be on one ship They don't they don't have like a little Wi-Fi router on the planet to help them take off What is even happening? Do they think this through for more than two seconds when they wrote this or it's like you have 18 months to make this movie We fired the director who's gonna work on it who had a whole other story worked out and now we just need nending So whatever put the pieces together. It's gonna work. It's gonna fit. It doesn't matter This link can't take off because the navigation is on one ship. Okay, whatever Here comes another great scene. Hey look, they're trouting on horseback. This is the shot you mentioned I believe it was during the scene where the heroes are fighting the heavily armed space fleet on horseback when I really started Rethinking my life choices Star Wars as I knew it was dead. It was something I'd suspected all along and by now There was no more childhood naivete to cushion the blow It dawned on me that all those years I'd spent as a diehard fan had meant absolutely nothing You know, they've like one laser it one laser those in there. They're all dead. Oh It's getting good. It's getting good boys And BB-8 is a good money hold on so they're on my course back and BB-8 is able to keep up with that speed They need one laser can hit him and all die I Mean that too Sorry, we keep it erupting each other. We're both like pissed about yes to my interior designer. I would like another spike here I'm gonna use lightning to make this place spooky Reminds me to install and I test the coil in the core of the planet so that I'm constantly surrounded by lightning Because a defining trait of my character is that I shoot lightning Now I'm going to do the most evil thing ever Make a love to my daughter My grand Somehow I think that would have been less offensive than how the movie actually ends. I would have preferred that and Soon put on some gold bond. Jesus Christ. You have all this shit built It is in your blood. What is he from? Glad us from portal hanging from the ceiling like that. It's emperors I guess he just controls a giant bionic arm dude someone just pull the plug. I'll kill him really doing this again Kill me me too, but he's thinking what all of us are thinking They all cleared it to life at once why I don't follow Believe it or not in this fleet of 10,000 ships all they have to do is blow up that nap tower and they can't take off And there's no pale save or any sort of backup plan once again the first order slash empire slash whatever the fuck Has designed a giant thing with one fatal weakness you think they've learned eventually, but no Just blow up the thing like in fucking legend of Zelda and then it's all it's all fixed Jump around being being wahoo shoot the thing Do one grenade No, it's a root gold bird machine don't you know they have a it's set up so that if an explosive goes off in any hallway inside of a star destroyer It just slowly destroys and trickles to exactly what you Just a blood grenade that just saved the thing I didn't I think my this point I was like spasming out in my chair and I was like half paying attention I just say what the thing is Okay, what is this the army of Palpatine? They got the chorus from the Phantom Menace duel the fates I Will like your parents Like that hooker I bang a hundred years ago Well, I guess it must have when would that have happened? I mean raise like only what 20s Their parents look like they're in their 30s or 20s when they left here So I guess it was 50 years ago. It was like while he was building the Death Star No, or like after he died he used the force to do space rape. I guess that's how Anakin's born Maybe it does conclude the sky walker saga Showing you your friends for dramatic effect like in the old movie. Oh my god people are actually dying. Oh my god The fleet of 10,000 star destroyers are actually killing some of the some of the protagonist. Oh, yeah, but not the important Dude, there's like a hundred of them. How have they not been completely obliterated? I think I hate the protagonist more than Palpatine at this point when I saw the trailer for episode eight I remember there's a moment at the end where it's like Luke says it's time for the Jedi to die or like It's time for the Jedi to end and I remember being so checked out of Star Wars by then that I wanted to make a parody Where instead he's like it's time for this shitty franchise to end and that's how I feel right now He's going down to tell Ray He has like Tourette or something even though he's not looking for Ray. He just screams that out gross Please go away I don't like how you sexually assaulted my face in the last movie. I was trying to kill myself. I've been suicidal for quite some time Oh God he sucks so much. Why is he here? He just loses every fight. Oh my god He loses to the emperors gay ghost guards Good this is what the Jedi are I want them to die. Dude, why are they not beating the snot out of him? Why does everyone just take a break for something to happen? You know well, you know what like Vader was contemplating when saving Luke at the end of Return of the Jedi he was getting fried by freaking lightning people just didn't pause dramatically to say let's let them have their moment What magic trick Take the little hand gesture the cue that'll It's so lame. You know what that was. That was like the Keanu hand gesture Except it wasn't cute. You know, they wouldn't even have had to happen He didn't throw away his one weapon like idiot because if it gets a friend of hallucinations right now. She has it again What if they duplicate it? I guess that was the lightsaber she had before before she took Leia's lightsaber. Yeah, two lightsabers. Oh, don't tell me they're gonna kiss They can't possibly do that right Brian. I mean first of all it wouldn't make any sense Second of all it would just be kind of dumb and unnecessary and totally disparate dude goldbond goes a long way They just steal their souls or something Yo, that's the powerful bond right there Wait, so all that stuff he was saying earlier about how she was supposed to kill him and take his place Is he just like improvising this now this totally unexpected thing or is he just omniscient he knows everything's gonna happen Oh, porkins remember porkins they're even referencing porkins because they cannot come up with a single new idea Oh God he fucking sucks all the protagonists in this movie suck. Yeah, I believe her Sorry guys, I look dumb three movies. I couldn't figure out how to do anything. Oh, but here comes an old guy to save the day Here comes an old guy from the old movies that you remember Oh, here's that gay shot I was talking about and they're all they're all doing the hyperspace jump and stopping in the atmosphere Wow, what a mysterious secret planet that every single person with a ship knows how to get to god Don't you want to buy toys of these new characters without homework? They're being moping and crying about how bad they are and being heroes and having to be bailed out by octogenarians 10 minutes So did all these people just commute to exegal? How can it be secret? This must be a workforce of like 20 million people, but it's a secret No one knows how to get there. We have to spend the first two hours of the movie going on a goose chase We're nothing if that bull happens Am they see see them in the game? They were like hey check out these coordinates. That's where the bad guys are there's 20 million You mean to say they all live here in the in on the evil lightning planet? No, they all just they use light speed or whatever Don't you understand how that works? It just allows you to travel anywhere you want Why is he wearing a red blazer? What is happening? He's wearing like a red cup. Oh no He's a fissus One side fell So full of the loss Guy walk out. Oh, he said the thing Good When in the poopy hole of lightning I like fantasizing about these characters permanent dying Helped Tina's dressed like he was just shopping at Elton John's garage sale. Take on another good part. Oh No, the zappies have hurts. Oh no, oh I'm sorry. I zoned out. I don't even know what's going on Is he using the the the lightning to kill everybody? He's not actually killing them He's momentarily disabling them. Are you one of those single-tier people? Look she's happy to see everyone dying. I'd be happy too. Good. I hate all the protagonist They're so weak and stupid and ineffective. They deserve this They deserve to all be killed and have the emperor rise again and let the Sith roll the galaxy again. They deserve it Check Oh, she's listening ASMR You're not Mays wind news there Clighon is there. What did Clighon even do? He's holding up. She's holding up. The force will be with you always All languages that's a little words of encouragement from my friends What's your death in the final word in the store? He helped with a billion wait. I thought he was doing the lightning things and I thought that he like stole her soul anyway Or whatever that like these a lot of them walking around now. What did she like get it back? The Jedi just handed to her because they think she's worthy now She's got two lights savers. She's got so much more power now. It's a done deal The friends are helping her. Oh and in space is melting away. You can see his brain Oh Grace gonna clone himself again. Oh, no that wasn't clearly killing the emperor. It doesn't cause him to be dead So what's the difference between her killing him as all of the Jedi and killing him as herself Why are you so incompetent? Oh no Tom Hanks die Somehow this fleet of 10,000 ships just no match for a couple of random ships driven by civilians Great get Poe one heroic thing to do Oh wait, he has to be undercut there too dude This movie hates its protagonist Holy shit dude you can't even let Poe have that And a rescue Poe just does since around it does nothing and just gets one up to buy an 80 year old man Man how erode don't you want to buy his toys? I'm so lost. I'm so fucking lost man star warsbands are clearly lost man clearly lost only north of Saint-O-Mo man Oh Wait, we done with this yet. Hey look it's escaping ass nope You're you have to watch the best scene in the movie Shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up. Remember how we're earlier shut up You shut up it's trolling shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up Stop shut up shut I'm smiling because I still don't think it's gonna happen It doesn't he doesn't believe they would do that to us. He doesn't believe they would shut up so vile shut up Shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut up shut You're not gonna kiss a dead girl. Okay. We're good. No kisses here. You have a hug? That should surely be enough to accomplish what you're trying to do with these characters. Alright, you've had your moment, had your moment. Now you could just move on. You can cut away. Right now would be a good time to cut away. You're even right now. You can cut away. The scene can be over. You know? Maybe she died. You know, she died? You can let her be dead? You're not cutting away. Shut the fuck up. You're not cutting away. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. Okay. Alright. Mmm. Mmm. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. Shut. Mmm. Mmm. Aah! Watch this. When I watch this in theaters, the audience audibly grown during this scene. There was no endearment. There was no cheering. People audibly grown. This was cringe then. And now I don't even know how to describe it. But there we go. I'm acting ending of the Disney Star Wars trilogy. There's more. There's people celebrating and stuff. But that suffice to say is the taste that everyone was left with when we walked out of the theater. Double groans from the audience then. They knew it was cringe then. This movie has an 85% audience score on Rotteneito's, I believe. 85? Yes. I'm sorry. That's good. That can't be. You mean like, how would it get that high of a rating? Star Wars fans want to believe that they didn't just waste 20 years of hype that all led to this. 51% from critics. Fans. 86%. They had to do it. They couldn't resist. They couldn't have one little bit of subtlety. The one shred of dignity that the series had left. Snip. Now do you see what I see, Brian? Now do you see why I don't really get excited about anything Star Wars related anymore? They had to do it. They had it. All the other crap wasn't enough. If they hadn't done this, I might have let it slide. But this. This was simply a gregis. There's no explanation or rationale for this. Well, let's finish it out. Yep. And seize your wept because there are no more worlds left to conquer. What is he going to die now? What do they just like trade places here or something? He died, but it is. What? What? What? No, what do you mean who cares? So they, I mean they, they did you have the fucking kiss she has the power to heal and then the, oh my god. You did good, Mazza. You did good. What the fuck? That's the end of the Skywalker saga. Oh and it's sunny on the evil planet now. Just so you know that good has triumphed over evil. It's sunny. Raise a lot. People are rising up all over the galaxy. The gamers are rising up. Oh yeah, at this point I was rising up out of my seat. Hey look in the Ewoks. What was that? My engines. There they are again. They still haven't ditched that design. Don't you feel happy? Don't you feel happy? Don't you feel joyful? Don't you feel like a big Star Wars fan? Aren't you glad you spent your whole life being a fan of this series just to have it turn into this? What? What was that? Like some flirtatious look? You can have Ray Kiss Kylo which makes absolutely no sense at all. But you can't have characters with an actual romantic chemistry do anything. Oh and she'll be fine. The god is meadow. Wow, that's great. So you can get one last soy in point from the pathetic millennials that the slop is made for. Oh I can feel the hate flowing through me. Why have her be bloody at all? I mean she just wins everything she tries for no reason just to have her be spotless. Oh yeah the trio of characters who accomplished basically nothing. You have one massively overpowered character who wins everything she touches and there's no stakes or tension that she might fail. And then the other two characters do nothing but fail and have to have octogenarians come in and do what they're supposed to do for them. But yeah our heroic Star Wars trio they're still here and still happy. We need one more shameless crap scene to close out the trilogy. Why not do it where it all began? I gotta look at some of these audience reviews. Somebody wrote it was entertaining at best and gave it a good review. What's the point of this? So she can do the stupid Luke Skywalker pose from a new hope. Oh really? Is this really what they're doing here? Yes I'm not even gonna be cute with this. That's what's happening because we can't have any single solitary thing from the originals not ruined by this complete travesty train wreck bankruptcy of imagination. Oh and she's just gonna bury it. That belongs and if you see them! So do you! What's that? P.P. Light Saver. Who are you? I'm right. Ray Ho. Oh great. I'm like trying to ignore it a little bit. They couldn't even make that subtle. You know what she's gonna say? Everyone knows it's until I got the whole time. They need to freaking have this because the audience is too stupid to understand otherwise. Rice Skywalker. And BB-8 is randomly here. Why? Do you like this BB-8? Need to be here. Do we need to shove... We're shit on the screen. During this shot that's supposed to make us feel good. But it made me feel the worst I've ever felt for any movie ever. You You How do you think JJ Abram's feels about this? Well he probably thinks it's a piece of shit. Well he did what he could in 18 months I guess. I want to hear something funny. I was struggling to remember what they called them but the twin sons in Star Wars. They're called Tattoo One and Tattoo Two. I knew it was something really dumb. I couldn't remember. Another Wikipedia certified classic. There's tons of useless facts. Like the planet which are 2D2 and all Astromic Droids are developed on. Never touched on in the lore. But it's named in the same way that Kuat is named. But technically we have seen stuff on Kuat. If you remember the episode, it's not an episode. It's Rogue One. Remember the scene where they're on that one planet at the way end of the movie? The manufacturing planet? That was Kuat. The Rogue One is actually dead. It's the only good movie that Star Wars has gotten out of this. Oh they credited Alec Guinness for Obi-Wan meaning they had to have deepfaked his voice. Oh you know how much Alec Guinness hated Star Wars? Honestly I'm closer to him now than I was before. I watched this movie originally. He didn't even like it when it came out. I think I heard that where he said it was just like a bunch of crap. He said it was crap. The reason that he hated Star Wars so much was because it became the only thing he was recognized for. He was out in public and the people would see him and go, whoa it's Obi-Wan Kenobi. He'd been in all of these other roles. That was so disappointing for him. It got to a point where a kid asked him to sign maybe it was like a t-shirt or like a toy or something like that. But some kid wanted something signed by him and he said, oh yes absolutely. But only if you promised to never watch that damn movie again. He saw the future. He saw when it would become back then. We should have listened. The demise of the franchise like this was probably just inevitable. There's no way to continue this Star Wars marvel or just any shtick indefinitely. It's all eventually going to fall apart and that's just the sad reality. If you seek to continue it and you continue to have the story develop on itself, eventually there's this. Can you think of a single product that has continued on for as long as something like Star Wars and hasn't turned a shit? I mean the only thing that I can think of that comes close is a television shot. It's the Simpsons. It's a disaster now. Every once in a while there's episodes that come out that people say are pretty good. The series is never going to be able to match season six. So with the Simpsons, the archetype of the Simpsons is dated now. Right. There's supposed to be a struggling middle class family and there are attributes about that. That are lost in translation in our modern world. The series still have the same characters but it's not like they're house and what they do and general character traits are. That was part of the 90's zeitgeist. People like Homer, Marge, Bart, they don't really exist in our contemporary times. At least how they're designed as core characters. I mean you can give Bart an iPhone and make them floss but in order to adapt them to the modern age, you lose the soul of what it was originally, even the ontology of what the characters actually are. And it's funny you bring that up because I don't know at this point if Star Wars was meant for today. I think the original movies wasn't the original Star Wars based on like the grand westerns and the samurai movies of the 60's. Movies were different back then. So much complexity has been put into modern filmmaking. The original story of Star Wars was simple. A simplicity creates a level of inflexibility where you can't really work the world into a lot of modern sensibilities. It's a little bit rigid, it's a little bit dated. And the more you try to put our modern standards of everything in the Star Wars, something that was made as this grand homage to the samurai and western movies of the 60's, it starts to fall apart. Much like with The Simpsons, you wind up with something that is unrecognizable. Oh god, the Chinese credits. Oh yeah. Thank you China for making this experience possible. Well you were just saying is an interesting take. I mentioned earlier the myth. It's not just the references and how much George loved old westerns, old sci-fi. It's also just how when you were saying that simplistic story, a lot of that comes from the hero's journey. It's like Camelot, right? Yeah, it's tied to old myth and a lot of intriguing old concepts that now just can't be explored because they're too simplistic for modern audiences. The way they janked up the formula was by making everything so complex that it no longer has any basis in reality anymore. Here's the problem. It is simultaneously complex. Convoluted is a more accurate term, plot-wise and exposition-wise. But the information and visual style and delivery has to be dumbed down and simplified. One, because this may be a cynical take that some disagree with, but I feel like audiences are dumber and less sophisticated today than they were in the 1970s when the original Star Wars came out. And international releases become a huge thing so you can't write it in a way to one alienate certain cultural standards. And two, have things that are lost in translation just with basic aspects of language. So you have to kind of sand off the edges and make it this polished, smooth, suppository thing. And the greatest movies are not smooth polished products. They have rough and caustic parts to them and these are the things that are memorable. These are the scenes you remember in movies. It's not the scenes where everyone is happy because the bad guy is defeated. You're describing a million different movies. What is actually the value that movies give us? What is actually the attributes of movies that cause us to want to watch it a second time? For how high the damn audience score is for this rise of Skywalker travesty of a film on Ron Tomatoes. How many of these reviewers who go and storm the review section on Ron Tomatoes on IMDB spamming your 10 out of 10 scores? How many watched this movie again voluntarily? How many went out of their way and said, you know what? The rise of Skywalker was so good, I feel like watching it again. Because that's the true mark of whether a movie was actually impactful and compelling and made a real impression on you. Rather than just a product, a consumer product that's tied to your fandom and sense of identity because everyone's identity now has to be tied to just corporate capitalist products that were created. And that's the only way to get rid of this product that was once based on something interesting. Right now, just husks of familiar faces and just an epileptic barrage of nonstop references of the familiar. To just jack up that reward center of your brain and make it look like you're actually having enjoyable experience. It's just, it's a sad state in cinema. And I'm honestly glad this may come off as tone deaf to some people, but I'm honestly glad that in 2023 Hollywood is bleeding out with all this crap and junk that they keep putting out. No different from this movie. And I'm sure all of you guys enjoying all these other franchises are gradually going to get to this point if you haven't gotten there already. That's what I was saying. You look through the coming attractions in the movie and you just can't help but say yourself, this is all a bunch of junk. It's just junk and that's what this movie is. And it doesn't matter how many of you sync a fanic Star Wars fans rushed to Rotten Tomatoes to jack up the user score. It's junk and there's no way around it. I hesitate to use this phrase as much. But if you enjoy this movie and unironically see nothing wrong with it, you are objectively wrong. And there is something wrong with the way you consume media. If you like this movie, you need to stop watching movies and go back to reading Dr. Seuss. And understand the basics of storytelling and the basics of what media and stories are actually supposed to accomplish for us. Because what this is, this isn't anything that's good for anybody. The only objectively good qualities that you can say about this movie are on a visual par. They have really good visual effects. They're able to transform what the idea of what they were trying to create was into a visually understandable sort of image. But that doesn't mean anything anymore because these multi-billion dollar corporations have the tools and assets that they're disposal to make gutter trash look good. I think what a lot of people are missing is if you try to just put it into words and have somebody read it in a book. It's not going to translate. And I think that's probably one of the greatest ways to identify if a story is truly great. Is if you can have somebody tell it back to you or you can just read it out of a book and have it carry the same emotional weight. So much of what happened here was as you were describing it was just, oh now they go here now. Now they go here now. And there's like little things to sort of click the puzzle pieces together in a rough sort of way. But if you were to try and read a novelization of this, none of those pieces are going to feel like they make any sense. You remember junior novels? I got Star Wars junior novels right here. They're not going to lend themselves perfectly in the same way that the films do. But there's more of a story going on here. In Episode 1, which is one of the worst Star Wars movies in my opinion and the opinion of many people, not as bad as this one. Even something like Episode 1, you're able to cohesively understand the process at which things are happening and why. There's a level of understanding with the exposition, whereas I'm thinking about things from the perspective of this as a junior novel. I'm thinking any poor kid who decided to read the novel first is probably just really f**king confused. Can you see an outcome where somebody reads through this shit and walks away thinking, wow, even though I didn't watch the movie, that was a great end to this franchise. Absolutely not. I mean we just watched it and I have no logical explanation for 75% of the events that happened. That just happens. Yeah, you're right. It was written by people who took a bunch of Adderall and PCP and pumped out a script in like a couple nights. That's what it comes off as. There's no logical threads. It's just a random amastment of events. It feels like an AI generated thing. When you get farther away from the source material and you keep asking to generate and generate and expand farther out, it just starts losing all sense of anything and it just starts shoving random stuff. It thinks that's what it's supposed to look like. That's what the story of the Rise of Skywalker feels like. And I want to briefly talk about here. There is a debate in the series over whether this movie or the last Jedi was worse. And on my mind, there's no comparison. Within the last Jedi, there is a workable story. It is workable. There are scenes you can cut. There are certain little small decisions you can change in the last Jedi and you can make an actual compelling movie. I don't agree with this idea that they completely screwed up Loops character. In fact, there's a video I have to recommend by the YouTuber, Nero. He made a video in defense of the last Jedi. I'm not saying you have to love the last Jedi, but he does a pretty good job arguing that the decisions Ryan Johnson made with the story in the last Jedi were at least thematically sound. And not some giant affront to the Star Wars lore as a whole, which is what's been the narrative for many people when you ask them about the last Jedi. My point is the last Jedi has a workable story within it where you can mix things around, you can edit it and have it come out with a decent product. This movie, the Rise of Skywalker, there is no saving it. It is corrupted to the core. There is nothing you can do with this movie without completely overhauling everything. The story, character arcs, everything. This movie is rotten to the core. It is unworkable. It is a complete corrupted mess. So in my mind, there is no question over which film is worse. This right here is indefensible. There is a good argument to be made though that this film would not have turned out the way that it did if it was not for mistakes that were made in the last Jedi. If the last Jedi was not this weird manipulated piece by Ryan Johnson to try and go what a twist, like it was an M-Night Shyamalan film, then we probably would have gotten a bit more of a boring and generic. Episode 9, but it would have been something that would have been satisfying to people who wanted a reintroduction to Star Wars after all these years. I think Episode 8 had ruined what a lot of people had theorized was going to happen. Do you know about the dark and light side uniting theories that people had after Episode 7 came out? That's like one of the things to achieve true balance. They would have to move to an era beyond the Sith and the Jedi. Right, yeah, there was this idea that since this was supposed to be the last trilogy, you were going to have these two characters and this very predictable plot twist where you find out that Rey is a Skywalker. And now they got a defeat snook and the only way that they're going to be able to defeat snook is if they team up this idea of the dark side and the light side teaming together would have been like the final end to the series. Because in a way you could say that the prophecy of the Skywalker's had passed all the way down to this point where now there's no longer this divide. There can be this balance and that would have been interesting. Not exactly the ending that I would have wanted to have to Star Wars, but it would have been better than this. That would have actually been progression. Right, I think that that would have been the ideal direction and that's probably what JJ Abrams was going to do. Unfortunately for him, snook was completely... they had to find a way to work Palpatine in, honestly. Being under that much pressure to make something in 18 months, I understand why this turned into what it did and I can almost say it wasn't really JJ Abrams fault. If he was more creative as an artist, maybe he could have transformed this into something genuinely interesting. Ryan Johnson had made something interesting but wasn't Star Wars and that's one of my main points when talking about the last Jedi. I like Ryan Johnson, I think he's a good director, but he's not a Star Wars director. That makes me wonder who could have made a good Star Wars if JJ Abrams was just going to do something boring and safe and Ryan Johnson was going to misdirect us. There's this little chicken in the egg thing of where did Star Wars actually go wrong? Because remember how happy people were with Disney bought Star Wars and how like vilified and hated George Lucas was after the prequels? Well, tables have certainly turned on that. This garbage Disney franchise has been the best thing to happen to George Lucas this century. I mean, talk about being redeemed. Well, yes, the prequels in a lot of ways are still underwhelming. It's not even close to just like the depths of the gravity that this Disney franchise has managed to accomplish even going back to the Force Awakens, which I enjoy originally. But I now see as just part of the problem as well. I can't enjoy that movie knowing what would come out of it. Even the Force Awakens, there was just this feeling where I really want to like it, but they're not really doing anything that's actually interesting. And then in the last Jedi, they had interesting ideas and set pieces, but it was just illogical. And it was structured and paced in a way where it was really hard to care about what was happening. And then in this movie, they just threw in the towel. It didn't really seem like anyone was trying. You look back at the Disney franchise. Think about who could have saved it, a Colin Trevile or whatever his name was. Jurassic World Guy. I think he was the original person to work on nine. I think I've seen a video on what the leaks script would have been. And it sounded better than this, but who knows how it would have turned out. Focus testing, China, all these other foreign markets, they have a say. The second it went over to Disney for all intensive purposes it was probably doomed. They were able to pull the stuff with the Avengers because the comics and superheroes is an inherently different format. And I guess the millennial writing style that's infested all these movies now is more apt for. But Star Wars, the tones and prevailing themes of Star Wars, not the same as the Avengers. The Marvel model has certainly doomed them to misunderstand how films are made. Because the way that they did Marvel was they came out with a superhero movie and it stood alone in its own place. They then released more superhero movies, which different teams of people could work on. And they didn't need to collaborate very closely until the Avengers came along. And then when the Avengers came along, they had better writers who were able to coordinate a way to get all of these stories to work intertwined. With Star Wars, you can't be spontaneous like that. The original trilogy was written by George Lucas and he had a planned outline for four or five and six. He already had a planned outline for one, two and three as well, but he wasn't sure what he needed to get it done. So that's why he waited until 1999 to start up the new trilogy. And by then he knew how one, two and three were going to go. He had a solid plan. And that for the most part, the world that he wanted to bring people were not just things that came out of his mind like that. They were things that he had seen for a long time. And that's why he needed to be confident that he could bring one, two, and three to the screen. And sure, you can say what you will about the prequels. What there was a plan. And they showed imagination and ambition at the very least. And at least the worlds and characters created could be adapted to other contexts like video games and provide compelling content. The characters of Ray, Poe, and Finn are unworkable. There's a reason why children didn't buy the toys. And sometimes children are a lot smarter than adults when it comes to circumstances like this because they have intuition. And they rely on their intuition. And intuitively there's nothing about what was done with the story telling involving these characters to make them compelling and even the slightest bit. And I'd say it goes far beyond the characters even. There was something to be said about how when you put characters into an environment, you can have an expectation as to how to get them from point A to point B. But with this, it seemed as if at any given time in which they put them into a new environment. There was not an expectation that they needed to somehow get to the final frontier. It felt very disjointed. As I was saying, like, it was about having a plan. George Lucas had a plan. Disney did not. They gave the first movie to JJ Abrams. And then as soon as that was done, they said, great, now we're going to hand it off to Ryan Johnson. The two of them didn't coordinate. It wasn't like JJ Abrams sent him a letter and said, hey, this is what we want to do for episode 9. So just make sure that it works to this point. Just like here, you have complete creative control, Mr. Johnson. And then after that, they take the slop that's left over, handed back to JJ Abrams and go, all right, creative control. They passed around the most beloved and cherished entertainment franchise, like it was a 2 cent whore. It's almost mind-boggling. They really didn't think this through. They spent $4 billion to buy the whole thing. And they didn't think of what to do with it. They just said, we'll do whatever we'll make money. You know who did think about what to do with it? George Lucas. He had given them an outline for what to do with episode 789. If I'm not mistaken, it was part of the deal. It wasn't like written anywhere, but it was suggested that if they were going to buy Star Wars, that they were going to honor his direction that he wanted the series to be taken in. But instead, after they bought Star Wars, they kicked him to the f***ing curb. They turned away his ideas and to think that maybe George Lucas could have redeemed himself. If they would have brought George's vision to life, but better than he could have, because they just brought on a better director. It's crazy that they threw it away for this. I'm not saying that necessarily it would have been the greatest thing in the world, but it definitely would have been better than this, and it would have been thought out. There's something else to be said about the schedule messing up the product. The series up until the point that this was made had released a movie every three years with the exception between 6 and 1. 1977, episode 4. 1980, episode 5. 1983, episode 6. And then episode 1, 1999, episode 2, 2002, 2005 for episode 3. They had three years to work with, but for here, it was 2015, 2017, 2019. They wanted to spit out three movies in four years. It's not workable if you want to create a cohesive narrative. It shows it's half baked. You can just see it in the pacing of the films. It feels like they're rushing. Let's just glaze past that. They're not going to notice. And that line of decision making feels like it went into like almost every aspect of the film. Let's not create a cohesive thing that's greater than the sum of his parts. Throw much of crap. Character needs to get from here to here. Just give them a thing, and they can do it. They don't have to have any character growth or ingenuity or anything that could actually make them likeable or heroic. Just give them a thing. Giving them a thing is the worst way to write, because it doesn't make the audience feel as if anything has been accomplished. And it makes you forget details from a movie that you saw in the theater. That was supposed to be this memorable thing from your childhood, because it's random and inconsequential. And it feels like the characters have done nothing to earn anything. That's the little series. Ray Poenfin. 25 years from now, they can show up at 70 year olds for the next trilogy. I don't even know if there's gonna be another trilogy because Star Wars has completely lost its fluster. Primarily, due to these Disney movies, it's just another thing now. Star Wars might as well be Johnny Test at this point. They have the same relevance over pop culture now. Yeah, people are still buying baby Yoda toys, but that's gonna run out real quick. The only reason franchises are liked, it has to be that the underlying product is good. Or it's at least meaningful to people in some way. These movies are just the epitome of meaningless slop. You look at all the people who are so hopeful, people like me, people like Brian. So hopeful that we get something decent at least. And they gave us this. That was your grand finale. Throw a bunch of shit at the screen that doesn't make any sense. Bring back a guy who died meaningfully and served as the climax of the previous trilogy. Just bring him back. That was your great idea. What can I say? It's still made money. It's still made a profit. But it's definitely probably not what they're expecting. And there's probably gonna be another trilogy by now. If they had handled it even decently. Man, am I envious of Harry Potter kids? They all got good movies. All these Marvel and Avengers people say what you want about the movies now. But they got a satisfying epic payoff to a long term weight. Even DC's been on hard times. But I mean, they had like the Dark Knight trilogy in the last 25 years. What if Star Wars fans had... Here's the other thing you gotta consider about those franchises that makes them even better. If they've got a stinker or two, they can just ignore it. You can ignore it because most of the time it's a one-off with one hero who's probably not going to come back. They'll just retcon that character rather than that franchise. With Star Wars destroying the credibility of the baseline series. It's never going to be Star Wars again. And I think even if in 20 years there's some sort of an attempt at revival. It's not going to have the same cultural effect where people go, Whoa! Star Wars! There's two of these trilogies now that are the Bismo, it's not redeemable. Nobody is going to look and be like, oh it's fine. It'll be like the original four movies that were from 40 years ago. 50 years ago. We're gonna come up on 50 years soon. That's really soon in three years. Say what you want about Star Wars, but it's never flopped before. They've always at least made their money bag. There will be more movies until the others are bone dry. They're going to be milk in that cow. And I think we're about to enter the age of the Star Wars financial flops. You already see it with all the other franchises. Indiana Jones, DC, the Flash, Fast and the Furious, Mission Impossible. Transformers I think was even a disappointment. Pixar, they're not making money anymore in theaters. Star Wars is next. They're gonna make more movies. And not only are they gonna be irrelevant. Not only are they gonna be bad. They're not even gonna make money anymore. Well you know they came awfully close to that. I was pretty sure that Solo with Star Wars Story was a flop. And technically it was. The budget was about $300 million. And in the box office, Worldwide, it made $393 million. I really don't know what else to say at this point, but... I came into the day possibly wanting to see it if maybe I was too harsh or maybe I was being too emotional. Maybe the Rise of Skywalker wasn't as bad as I thought. Oh no. Oh, it is every bit as bad. And seeing it now with more lucidity, it truly lets me see the scope of the disaster this was. And at no point was any part of the film more redeemable for me. All I had to do was beat being the worst thing I've ever seen in theaters. And it couldn't do that. And it's still the worst thing I've ever seen movie-wise. Brian, you watched it for the first time. Is this put like the death nail in Star Wars Story you're looking for me? This has come pretty damn close to that. There's one saving grace. La la la la la. No. I think you had to have the theatrical experience. That's what sent me over the edge. That moment is burned into my head of being the theater and seeing Ray, Kiskylo, and everyone audibly grown. That was where my desire to be a Star Wars fan completely shattered. It's embarrassing that moment solidified it. Publicly, a public humiliation. I hope you enjoyed this video. I have no idea how long the final product will be. We've been here for like four hours. It'll probably be cut down. Hopefully, I'd say about an hour. You know, hopefully for all you Star Wars fans out there, you've enjoyed a great trip down memory lane. Maybe if you liked this film review series, we can do more episodes. But I don't think anything will be as good as this. I don't feel as strongly about almost anything in cinema as I do about this. This has been another episode of Half in the Spiral. A Green Letter Media production. May the Force be with you. I got jokes. You want a joke? We just watched one. We just spent two and a half hours watching one. Star Wars Disney franchise. A big joke. I've got one final joke. I've decided I'm still a Star Wars fan. Because I've just decided this is not Star Wars. Anything that Disney put their hands on. I don't have to care about it. If you really appreciate something, then should you let other people ruin it for you? In my case, I'm not going to let Disney ruin it for me. I'm going to continue to care about the things that I care about. I'm going to continue to see what has merits and hold onto that. And who am I kidding? I'm coping. I'm going to kill myself later because of this. Alright guys, thanks so much for watching. I'm Andrew Kramer. Be sure to check out the website, videocopilot.net, and we will see you next time.