Welcome back everyone to another Downward Day. And I'm recording this audio the week after I uploaded my most recent main channel video about Jar Jar Binks. And I figured that since I have Star Wars on the mind, I'm going to take some time on this channel to discuss my thoughts on something that I didn't get to thoroughly cover on the Jar Jar video. And that is my general opinions on the movie that produced Jar Jar the Phantom Menace. And part of the reason I was inspired to make the Jar Jar video is that this year happens to be the 25 year anniversary of the Phantom Menace releasing in theaters. An event that was truly significant in the history of American cinema and one that ultimately signaled the beginning of the end for Star Wars as we knew it. So I've already covered a lot of the historic background with this movie in the main channel video. And today on the Downward Diary, I really want to hone in on my personal assessment of the film. And believe it or not this year, Star Wars was actually feeling festive as well for the 25 year anniversary of the Phantom Menace. So they ended up putting it out in a limited theatrical release back in May, which was honestly a pretty welcome surprise for the purposes of my research. Because all of a sudden, I had the rare opportunity of putting myself in the perspective of someone watching the Phantom Menace in theaters for the first time. So up until a few months ago, I had never actually experienced the Phantom Menace on the big screen. I didn't get to see it in 1999 because I was only one year old and I didn't get to see the 2011 3D release because back then I was just convinced that the Phantom Men is sucked and it wasn't worth watching. But has my mind changed on the matter since then? And even as recently as last year, I've gone on the record on this channel and discussed how I really don't like this movie. But after finally watching it in theaters, did my mind change? Was the Phantom Menace redeemed in my opinion? And well folks, to be perfectly honest with you, after finally rewatching the Phantom Menace with fresh eyes, it was just about as bad as I remembered. And I know that may come off as a disappointment to some of you, especially in this modern age of the Star Wars fandom. We're in light of the Disney movies being so awful. There seems to be this active reassessment of the prequels where their overall quality has almost retroactively been elevated. And it seems like there's been a lot of pressure from the Star Wars fanbase to convince themselves that the prequels were actually good movies. Or at the very least the Phantom Menace was somehow good. And I've been around on the internet for a while now. And I've seen the public opinion on the Phantom Menace go both ways. I remember a time when this movie was absolutely despised. You had some people calling it the worst movie in history. And now I've seen it flip where all those people are being called wrong. And the Phantom Menace is being heralded by some as an underappreciated masterpiece. And I think a lot of this difference in opinion is related to a change in perspective. And as someone who sort of fits in between the old generation and the new generation, I don't really fall in line with either one of these opinions. And before I get into my opinion on the Phantom Menace, I think it's worth explaining specifically the context with which I discovered these movies. And how I actually engaged with them in the first place. So as I briefly touched on earlier, I was too young to watch the Phantom Menace when it actually came out in theaters. So that whole initial reaction of hate and disappointment that a lot of people seem to have with it, that was before my time. Additionally, I was not someone who ever got to watch the rest of the prequels come out in theaters. In fact, my introduction to being a fan of Star Wars actually ended up happening after Revenge of the Sith. And it actually came out of engaging with 2000 Star Wars spin-off media. If I remember correctly, my first actual taste of Star Wars came from playing Lego Star Wars 2 at a friend's house. And I really didn't know anything about the franchise before then. So eventually, I played through the Lego Star Wars games myself and got sort of the cliff notes version of the story for both the original trilogy and the prequels. And then eventually, I got to talking with my dad and he decided to show me all six of the Star Wars films in order. And not in order of episode number, but in order of release, which is how he saw them. And so over the course of the next six weeks, we would order one of the films each week on Netflix back when they used to mail out DVDs, which is something that has to sound completely absurd and alien to anyone under the age of 20 who's watching this right now. But each week, we would get a new Star Wars film in the mail from Netflix. And we would watch it on the family TV. And this was really my first introduction to all of the Star Wars films. And with the situation, it's important to note that I'm watching all of them in the same space on the TV, not in theaters, not on the big screen. And I ended up watching the prequels after the original trilogy, which I think for a lot of people in my age group is not how they first started watching the franchise. And I'd be interested to hear in the comments below if your experience differs. But I'm pretty sure that most kids my age that were born in the late 90s in early 2000s, many of them watched the prequels come out in theaters and became Star Wars fans from the prequels. And then they went on to watch the original trilogy on home media or television or whatever. So circumstantially, I feel like I'm a bit unusual in terms of people my age in that I actually watched the original trilogy first. And I watched all six of these movies in the same environment with no real hype or expectations going in. So I feel like I personally ended up getting a pretty objective and neutral perspective on all these movies. And I have to say I must have been eight or nine years old when this happened. And I didn't understand any of the technicalities about filmmaking or what exactly behind the scenes makes a movie good. But I must admit that even when I watched the Phantom Menace and the rest of the prequels back then, I got the impression that something was off about the prequels. My perspective back then was that they came off as much more flat and boring and just lacking energy compared to the original trilogy. And I remember specifically there'd be times when I was watching through the Phantom Menace and attack the clones where I just be zoning out. And that's something that I don't think ever happened when I was watching through the originals. And it's worth noting that before this, I had heard from others that the prequels were not as good. I knew a little bit about the infamous stuff like Jar Jar and how Jar Jar was like this hated Reviled figure. And before we ended up watching the movies, my dad would tell me that basically yeah, the originals are like cherished masterpieces and the prequels, they might not be, they might not hold up as well. And I think my dad was definitely one of the original Star Wars fans. I don't believe he hated the prequels as many others did. I don't think he ranted on and on about how they ruined his childhood or anything. But it really seemed to me that in the 2000s, there was definitely a consensus among film-enjoined people that the prequels were a step down from the originals and that little bits and pieces of them were a tad notorious to say the least. And so I must admit that this was something I vaguely knew going in and perhaps it influenced my opinion, but to be perfectly honest, I'm pretty sure I went into the prequels wanting to like them. And yet something about them to me even back then was not very engaging. So suffice to say the whole point of this long-winded preamble is to say that I don't exactly have this raging vendetta against the phantom menace or the prequels. And in revisiting the phantom menace, this year in theaters, I was genuinely curious if I'd miss something and if it was going to change my mind. Because if I recall correctly, this was my first time actually sitting down and watching the phantom menace all the way through since I was a kid. And folks, I'm sorry to say that it was just about as bad as I remembered. Possibly even a little worse than that. And I don't really know how else to slice it, but this movie was bad. Plain and simple. So for all these people extolling the praise at how the phantom menace is this misunderstood gem, I really don't see where you're going with it. This movie just has way, way too many problems to be called anything other than a bad product. And I'm sorry, it pains me a bit to say this because I do respect George Lucas, and in fact working on this whole video project, it helped me to respect him even more as an artist. But my god was he in way over his head here. And I guess to start, the biggest overarching problem that holds the phantom menace back from being good is that the entire plot feels like it lacks purpose. The story of the phantom menace is just so aimless and meandering. There are so many times throughout this movie where it feels like the characters are just waiting around with no real place to go. The film is severely lacking in character and story motivation. The movie does a really poor job of conveying to the audience what exactly any of the characters want. And I understand that there are intricate little political reasons for all the character actions. But what I'm talking about with all of this is more so what the characters want to fulfill on an emotional level. The type of thing that is really important to get the audience to root for the protagonist and to hate the antagonist. So much of how the plot of the phantom menace is conveyed fails to get the audience on board with why they should care about what's happening. A lot of people like to complain that the phantom menace is boring. And this is definitely something I felt in the theater. And it mirrored exactly what I felt watching the movie as a kid. There are so many scenes in this movie that just drag on because you're just simply waiting for the story to cut to the chase and get to the cool stuff. But what's especially unfortunate about the phantom menace is that even when they get to the cool stuff, it still feels lackluster and underwhelming because the character motivations are simply not pronounced enough to really engage you in the primary conflict. Like the one centerpiece that everyone was looking forward to in this movie. The thing that the trailers promised the thing that everyone hyped themselves up over was supposed to be this epic confrontation at the end between Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan and Darth Maul. This was supposed to be like the first truly epic lightsaber duel in the entire franchise. And so you sit through the whole movie, you sit through Jar Jar, you sit through Kid Anakin, and you finally get there and it's just like, okay, whatever they're fighting. And yeah, all the superficial things about it make it feel epic. The score by John Williams is epic. It's probably the most epic Star Wars song ever composed for the entire franchise. The visuals and choreography are all epic, but despite all of that, it still comes off as flat. And I know this is unpopular to say because Star Wars fans hold this fight up on a pedestal as like one of the best examples of lightsaber fights in the entire history of the franchise but to me it just falls flat. For the simple reason that the emotional drama of this scene is basically nonexistent. Like honestly, what reason is there for me to want Darth Maul to be defeated other than the fact that he's a red guy and he's trying to stop the heroes? Like, oh my god, Darth Maul, cool character, cool character design. Everyone went into the Phantom Menace thinking he was going to be the most epic, important character ever. And then you watch the actual movie, and the guy says like 10 words in the entire thing. I mean honestly, who the hell is this guy and why the hell should I care and why should I treat him any differently than some generic video game enemy? Because as far as how the characters explicitly portrayed in the Phantom Menace, there's like literally no reason given to care about him. He's literally one of the most generic villains ever created. He does nothing, says nothing, only does his stand there and look intimidating and then I guess he kills Qui-Gon. And then immediately gets killed after that. So the one interesting thing the character does is immediately wasted and rendered unusable for the rest of the story. And I point out this example to more so illustrate that pretty much everything in the film is designed like this. So many of the characters in the Phantom Menace feel pointless. They feel like they're just sort of going through the motions because the plot requires it and not because they're exercising any sort of agency or wants or desires over their own personal internal conflict. So correct me if I'm wrong here, but to me the whole purpose of the Phantom Menace plot is to show Palpatine becoming Chancellor and Anakin getting discovered by the Jedi Council in beginning his training. Like that is the ultimate consequence of the story of the film. And in terms of the overall story going forward for the trilogy, those are really the only two things that matter. So if that's the case, then how is Palpatine only in the movie for about 10 minutes and Anakin doesn't even get introduced until maybe 45 minutes in. The two central figures of the prequel story and it feels like the plot of the Phantom Menace doesn't even know if it wants to focus on them. It feels like at times the movie is more interested in telling Jar Jar story. And obviously I've already discussed Jar Jar at length in the main channel videos. I'm not really going to talk about it here, but it bears repeating that if Anakin and Palpatine are supposed to be the central figures of this trilogy, how is this much screen time being dedicated to the story of Jar Jar. And who knows maybe the Darth Jar Jar theory is true and there were supposed to be bigger plans for him, but as it stands now, all this time and effort spent on Jar Jar is basically a waste. It's valuable time in the story, being spent on something that ends up becoming irrelevant and inconsequential in the later films. And hey, forget about Jar Jar even. Let's look at a character like Obi-Wan. Yeah, it sure is cool to see the young Obi-Wan doing cool, young Jedi stuff, but is it just me or does he really have nothing to do in this movie? Like honestly ask yourself, what is the point of Obi-Wan being involved in the story at all? Obviously I get that the whole point of his character arc in the prequels is to train Anakin and be Anakin's master. But shesh, you can tell me that from 80% of this movie, where he barely speaks a word to Anakin the whole time and only begrudgingly agrees to take him on as his padawan, simply because it's what Qui-Gon would have wanted. For someone who's supposed to be such an integral part of Anakin's story and his eventual turn in the later films, the character relationship between Obi-Wan and Anakin is basically non-existent in this movie. And I really think you could have written Obi-Wan out of the phantom manuscript entirely and hardly anything would change. It seems like Lucas and the filmmakers were so content on just having Obi-Wan there as a blast from the past to make the audience go, oh sweet it's young Obi-Wan kick ass. And they forgot to actually give him anything to do in the story. And this is something I truly realized when watching the phantom and us again. But if you really look at the plot, so much of the runtime of this movie is wasted on pointless and inconsequential events. It is pretty unbelievable how banal and uninteresting the conflict is in what is supposed to be this epic action adventure movie. I mean really all this stuff with the trade federation, the blockade, tax disputes, spending an hour of the movie on Tatooine trying to get a new ship part. This is like the kind of low stakes drama that they would put in a cartoon episode. But they decided to put it in the epic adventure that is supposed to be Star Wars. You come out of the whole experience feeling like, okay I just spent two plus hours watching the story of this movie and it feels like nothing really happened. I'd almost compare it to watching the pilot episode of a TV show. Where the whole thing feels like this expository prologue to set up the actual interesting part of the story. It's like this entire movie only feels like act one of a movie. And I get it you know it's episode one it's supposed to set up the rest of the story obviously. But I swear it feels like the actual story for this movie should have began where the real movie ended. Or at the very least it should have began when they found Anakin. If you ask me I really don't understand why Anakin was not immediately included at the beginning of the movie. I mean after all he's kind of the main character of this entire thing. So I always found it so bizarre looking back at how it takes the movie like 45 minutes to introduce him. I mean it's the whole part before this with the Trade Federation and meeting Jar Jar and Naboo and running the blockade even necessary at all. The point of the story is that the Jedi discover Anakin. Why does the film waste so much time in getting there? And speaking of Anakin let's talk about this character. Mark my words. The mishandling of young Anakin Skywalker is the single biggest mistake in the Phantom Menace and kind of the prequels in general. Jar Jar ended up taking all the flak but the mistakes made in portraying Anakin were far more detrimental to the Star Wars franchise than Jar Jar ever was. Celestia start off with the elephant in the room here and that's the casting. It's a well-known infamous story at this point that Jay Kloid was cast to basically be the lead of the most anticipated movie in history at age 9 and his participation in that role basically ended up ruining his life. The amount of ridicule and mockery he got for portraying little orphan Annie ended up severely derailing his mental health and basically left him with a lifetime of problems. Now by and large I actually consider George Lucas to be quite an ethical and fair person. There were times when he had a lot of power and authority in Hollywood and for the most part he didn't end up abusing that power like many others in his position would. However the decision to put this much pressure on a nine-year-old amateur actor it has to be one of the most reckless and irresponsible things that Lucas has ever done in his career. Based simply on what was being asked out of the role not just in terms of the literal acting but as an invitation to be the poster child and the face of the most important media franchise in the world the role of Anakin should have been given to a teenager at the bare minimum and what's actually interesting about this is that early drafts of the Phantom Menace as seen in the behind the scenes footage for the movie they depict Anakin as being more or less a teenager and then somewhere along the way Lucas decided to make the character a straight up child and this just ended up being a tremendous oversight in the development of the film. And this decision basically ended up instigating two severe problems for the Phantom Menace. The first being that J.Cloid was very limited in his aptitude as an actor and again sorry it's not his fault I understand but pretty much his entire performance is unconvincing and distracting. He's not old enough and he doesn't have the skills or the chops to pull off a character that is supposed to be this very conflicted soul and based on how dark of a character that Anakin would eventually turn into his portrayal in the Phantom Menace as essentially a goofy happy go lucky kid just comes off as strange and off-putting and I understand that supposed to be part of the design of the tragedy where someone so pure at heart and innocent ended up being corrupted I get all that but in order for a character turns such as this to appear convincing and satisfying there has to at least be a little bit of foreshadowing they had to lay the foundation for the darkness within Anakin that would eventually consume him and that's something that really should have started in the Phantom Menace and not in attack of the clones the kernel of darkness and rage in Anakin should have been established from the onset but in order to pull that off you needed an actor who was more skilled and was able to show the subtlety of a otherwise wholesome pure character with some dark undertones and sorry I don't think J.Cloid at age nine had the capacity to do that and that brings me to the second major problem with casting someone so young for Anakin and that's by canonically making the characters so young in the story it makes so much of what he does in the plot feel contrived and unbelievable when it comes to the Disney Star Wars movies everyone always likes to point out how raised characters written like a Mary Sue where she all of a sudden has total mastery over all these unexplained powers and as much as I hate to admit a point where the Disney movies were not the worst at something what young baby face Anakin does in the climax of the Phantom Menace is more immersion breaking than anything raised character does in the entire Disney saga at the end of the movie this nine-year-old kid literally climbs aboard a star fighter for the very first time and single-handedly defeats an entire army in space he literally flies his ship through the enemy hanger without somehow getting completely obliterated and basically takes out the entire droid control ship by himself and I understand he's good at pod racing but this series of events is just one of the most unbelievable things I've ever seen in a movie and it is arguably the strongest plot armor any one character has ever been gifted with in the entire Star Wars saga and I bring all this up to suggest that maybe just maybe if the character was just a bit older maybe age 13 14 or 15 they could have managed to make it just a little bit believable if the character was a bit older and maybe just had the smallest modicum of training in what he was doing you could have maybe had this scene just on the right side of plausibility but to have some little nine-year-old torque go in and do this and defeat an entire army by himself where most of the time it doesn't even look like he knows what he's doing sorry but we are now way too many degrees of separation away from reality and now rather than getting the audience to rally behind the hero you've made the sequence of events so unbelievable that it's now become dumb and offensive and this is how you get people to turn on the movie and to turn on the hero of the story you can't have a character achieve these great things without making it feel earned otherwise the audience will simply reject what is happening entirely and that's sadly the case with a lot of what Anakin does in this movie it is not convincing enough to sell the story that the creators are trying to sell and jake Lloyd blesses heart was simply not charismatic enough to deliver the version of the character that probably should have been this character was drawn up to be a misfortune at slave who lives a tragic existence and you never really get that impression from any parts of the performance if anything he does the opposite he makes being a slave to waddo look like this fun idyllic experience he's constantly laughing and smiling and playing with his friends he seemingly has a bunch of free time to play around and work on whatever hobby he wants it really feels like he's just a slave in name only that in the fact that there's some silly bomb inside of him that's going to explode if he tries to run away which by the way can we admit that this is one of the stupidest and most sloppy pieces of screenwriting to ever be released in cinema oh no we can't just take the boy and his mom away from this place because but because there's a bomb inside of it's gonna explode if we take them away like dude are you kidding me you can have thought of any plot device a little more clever than that there's a bomb inside of them okay whatever I guess they are slaves after all living a hard life which again is a scenario that probably would have been portrayed a lot better if Anakin was some angsty teen instead of some joyful smiling kid probably what have made is eventual turn to the dark side a lot more convincing but yeah kid Anakin pretty much flat out sucks and there's no other way to put it and then when you combine an annoying kid with a wacky slapstick comedy sidekick you're pretty much setting yourself up with a recipe for a disaster and boy there are several scenes in the middle of this movie that are really hard to get through where it seems like half of the time is spent with either jar jar or Anakin talking talk about a nauseating assault to the senses and while watching this stuff I could only imagine all those people back in 1999 who worked themselves up into the biggest wave of hype that any group of people have had for any movie ever people waiting in line for months taking off work just so they could see the premiere of this movie and then an hour into the show most of the screen time is being taken up by a little kid who can't act and a screeching cartoon rabbit who speaks gibberish I could only imagine what must have been going through their heads in that moment so I definitely understand why this movie was so hated and it pretty much comes down to how almost all the characters are boring and unlikeable now did this movie deserve to be called one of the worst ever I think saying that is definitely a stretch because the Phantom Menace did end up doing a lot of stuff that was truly impressive I think that the overall story that it was trying to set up and the world building were truly imaginative and George Lucas deserves a lot of credit in that department he really extensively thought things through with all the different planets and ships and governments and societies across this expanded Star Wars universe that he was presenting and I also think that when you factor in the time that this movie came out the visual effects and computer graphics were truly top notch and even going off the standards we have 25 years later a lot of these shots and sequences still look really good so the artists and engineers at ILM certainly deserve a ton of praise for what they were able to pull off with this project but at the same time it's still a shame to see all this hard work go to waste on a project whose story and execution did not live up to the and did not match the standard of excellence set by the special effects department but to this day I'll continue to insist that the effects in this film are amazing and it's a shame to see people rip on them so much or even blame the entire faults of the film on the fact that there was such a heavy emphasis on special effects and I think a lot of people's complaints regarding the visuals of the Phantom Menace don't actually have anything to do with the effects or computer graphics and that any sort of visual problem that people may have with this film come down more so to an issue of cinematography so to this day no other movie really looks like the Phantom Menace and this even applies to the other two prequel films the whole movie is a pretty odd visual style and that's because in many ways it's kind of an oxymoron where the visual effects are so ambitious and so meticulously planned out but the overall cinematography of how exactly the scenes are shot for most of the movie is very bland and conservative so it's clear that Lucas wanted to make this movie a showcase of computer effects if you look at interviews from around the time it's always one of the first things he mentions where with groundbreaking innovations in computer graphics the possibilities for visual storytelling could be blown wide open and the prospect of this certainly excited Lucas where he basically unlocked the keys to the kingdom where for the first time ever the balance of his imagination were no longer limited by physical reality to him creating a computerized world was like the final frontier of filmmaking and so that became a heavy priority in the Phantom Menace where a lot of the blocking and placement of characters in a scene was solely set up for computer elements to be added in later and again it's worth noting that a lot of these effects that the artists at ILM were trying to pull off had literally never been attempted before they were learning to engineer these things for the very first time and so with that being said a lot of potentially interesting cinematography had to be sacrificed just to make sure that the visual effects process went as smoothly as possible and so to actually get these great looking effects there had to be a lot of stationary cameras with flat lighting in a room where people are basically just sitting and standing around when the Phantom Menace was in production they didn't yet have the capacity to do all these complex camera movements and super involved effects shots that combine interesting cinematography with computer graphics that was still very much a limitation at the time so unless they wanted the budget to swell to like a billion dollars the actual static raw camera shots of the scenes had to be simplified and streamlined and unfortunately this ends up leading to the sort of artificial feeling that many people like to complain the Phantom Menace has where a lot of the scenes are almost blocked out like a stage play and there's not much interesting stuff going on with camera angles and lighting I also have to admit that cinematography was not one of Lucas's stronger aspects as a director even going back to the original trilogy aside from special effects Lucas was never really that much of a visual director and it seems like for the overall visual style of the Phantom Menace to have come out more appealing he probably would have needed to bring someone in to delegate that responsibility to and one such example for Lucas's limited abilities in this regard has to come down to the scene where Darth Maul confronts the heroes for the first time and this was something that I forgot was even in the movie and I think most people forget this scene exists where Darth Maul appears and confronts Qui-Gon on Tatooine this is supposed to be an epic reveal of the main villain of the movie and he just sort of awkwardly trots in a frame on a wide shot like that sketch from Monty Python with the perpetually running night they shot this like in the middle of the day in broad daylight so it's not even like he gets to emerge from the shadows or appear from out of nowhere in a surprising way it's just a really strange and awkward way to portray a scene which realistically should be a lot more exciting and impactful and memorable as a key point in the story and it's stuff like this that really makes the Phantom Menace so frustrating to me because there is a nugget of a great film buried in there somewhere it's not something like the rise of Skywalker which is totally irredeemable in every way the Phantom Menace was at least close to being something special but in order for that to happen George Lucas would have had to relinquish control of several aspects of production that he wasn't frankly the best at he certainly could have used some help on the writing the dialogue the character motivations and the lighting and cinematography but since he insisted that he had to do everything the product we ended up getting was not just disappointing but bad in a lot of aspects and while I don't believe it deserves to be viciously hated as it once was I definitely don't agree either with people trying to desperately reclassify it as a good product because when you actually sit down and watch it there are simply way too many problems for this to be considered anything close to above average and look it's okay to still like this movie if you do and call it a guilty pleasure but it's misleading to try to pass this off to others as some kind of hidden masterpiece because this is the type of stuff you tell people and then they turn around and question the sanity of the Star Wars fandom and maybe at this point it's not really that far out of line for them to do that look I understand the desire of wanting your favorite franchise to have an illustrious lineage of great products but at some point you have to be realistic about what those products actually are and yes the Phantom Menace was probably the most overhyped movie in history and part of that delusion certainly contributed in some way to the hate the movie received but the way to remedy one delusion certainly doesn't have to involve creating an equal and opposite delusion pretending that the Phantom Menace somehow didn't have any problems because that right there to me is living in just as false of a reality and you can talk about the movie being overhated but you can also bring up how there is no other movie in history that people wanted to like more and I truly believe that if the product had been even adequate we wouldn't be in this situation and the Phantom Menace would have been embraced and beloved just like all the other Star Wars films that preceded it but unfortunately that's not the product we ended up getting the one we got was exceedingly poor in a lot of aspects even if you take all the hype and great expectations out of the equation what you have in a vacuum is a below average movie and I really believe you have to bend the rules a lot to wind up with any other conclusion I don't want to hear the excuse about how some character plot moment is actually interesting because it came out in a random book three years after the fact the merits of a movie should be able to stand on its own if a movie fails to engage the audience or convey to you why you should care about its story within its own contained runtime then that is unequivocally a problem with the movie it doesn't matter if you come in three four or five years later and supplement the information with some random book or video game or external extraneous material a movie should be able to exist on its own period without having to dedicate an additional 20 hours combing through the EU about any questions you may have about it and this practice of supplementing poor and sloppy filmmaking with extraneous lore and other random material on Wikipedia this has got to be one of the single most obnoxious things that the Star Wars fandom repeatedly does and it makes them come off as totally delusional and I bring this up because I know for a fact that there are going to be pissed off Star Wars fanboys complaining in the comment section of this video about how Qui-Gon is actually a super interesting character because of some book or some video game and I'm here to reiterate that that's completely irrelevant lackluster filmmaking should not have to be supplemented with extracurricular bonus media and it is unreasonable and invalid to attack fans who do not have a good opinion of the phantom menace because they didn't read some random book so please spare me the details of how some random part of new gunraise backstory is actually super interesting and totally changes the way we should look at the phantom menace if it's not explicitly conveyed by the movie then it does not and should not matter and it's worth noting that after the phantom menace a lot of people just straight up stopped being Star Wars fans they watched this movie and decided that Star Wars was not for them and while this wasn't as catastrophic of an effect that the Disney sequels produced it was still very much real a lot of people simply fell out of Star Wars because the phantom menace did not meet their expectations and I don't think any random lore from a book was ever going to bring them back and as for my own personal verdict on the phantom menace it really comes down to how there's some stuff to like but there is much much more stuff not to like despite all my criticism I still think it's okay for people to like this movie but I also think it's perfectly fine for people to hate it and while I personally don't hold any strong feelings about it in either direction I certainly acknowledge it as this huge watershed moment that altered the course of the Star Wars franchise forever and pretty much all the problems and struggle that Star Wars faces today as a brand can be traced back to this one movie and so while I can probably never be persuaded into believing that the phantom menace is an actual good movie it is at the very least an important and memorable movie and hey after 25 years it is still very fun to discuss