People have spotted 6-9 supercars being towed by the IRS as he can't pay his taxes with sources claiming he has debts of over $20 million. Paying this back now seems pretty unlikely, as 6-9's recent album was such a massive flaw, most people don't even know that he released something new. Compare this to 2017 when 6-9 was under-faded. Everything he released became an instant hit, and no one can deny it. His unique style of music was pulling hundreds of millions of views, leading to a self-reported massive record deal, with 6-9 stating, right now I'm signing my life away to illuminati for $7.5 million. Life is awesome. Only four months later, he'd land a headphone deal worth $4.9 million, and was paid a 6 figure sum just to feature fashion over in one of his music videos. Well, before this 6-9 was already bragging, I made a million dollars this year and bought a fake Rolex with it, then only a year later he was donating the same amount. Since the last time I've been here, I donated a close to $1 million just to community. That's no foundation, just going on the street and giving out money. Hit post multiple video showing massive stacks of cash. Does money dictate everything you do? Fuck yes! Protecting his $500,000 jewelry pieces by dropping a further $100,000 on personal security for a 10-day LA trip. Here, he'd sign yet another multi-million dollar publishing deal showing that the money was coming from his music. 6-9's first album, Dummy Boy sold over a million units, meaning it likely made over $10 million. However, he'd foolishly use the entire album to rap about committing crimes. For example, on Kootahit proudly proclaim, all my people really gangbang, talk that damn slang. Rapper about it do the same thing, let your nuts hang. We post up we don't do the race, you gone die today. Similarly on Billy Heat ad, get the f-up out my f-ing face before I murder you. Whole squad full of killers I'm a killer too. Send shot, shot, shot, shot, shots. Everybody get pop, pop, pop. Send a shot, shot, shot, shot, shot, shot. Everything I was rapping about was really happening. Which certainly didn't help to Carti's next chapter. 6-9's rapper faces prison and sex offender registry. The article explained that 6-9 originally pleaded guilty in October 2015 to using a child in a sexual performance when he was 18. In a video posted online, a 13-year-old girl was seen engaging in oral intercourse while T'Carti stood behind her. The hip-hop star has since been arrested twice for allegedly choking a 16-year-old in a shopping center in Houston earlier this year. In May, he was also arrested for driving without a license, assaulting a police officer and obstructing governmental administration. 6-9 wasn't given leniency as he was using social media to promote a culture of violence and glorify gang activity, but while he did pay his bond of 155,000, the problems didn't end there. After finally closing the book on his 2015 child sex case, 6-9 and his associates went to Falee Pay-Cow to celebrate the legal win with a lavish dinner. Things got ugly when the crew was denied entry into the restaurant as a brawl took place and gunshots rang off. A pair of 6-9's entourage members and his manager are arrested for their involvement. One of the security guards working at the restaurant is reportedly hit over the head with a chair, throwing some robberies plus multiple shooting incidents, and 6-9 was facing a minimum of 47 years in prison. I got a federal agent sitting in front of my house, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 cars, one thing I fear in life. No, two things. I fear God, and I fear the FBI. The fact. Only two things I'm scared in life. He'd infamously testify against 12 co-defendants, I don't give a fuck if I'm held accountable for what I did. Yes, I snitch, not did it proudly. Which reduced his sentence to just two years, although it also completely destroyed his credibility. 6-9 snitching became a whole meme format, with people joking, 6-9, I ain't no snitch. Judge 47 years. 6-9 ever noticed Wayne Johnson looks like the rock, implying he'd say anything to get a lighter sentence. He was therefore also memed as a Karen, whilst others joked, imagine spending 7 years in college to become a lawyer, and your client shows up to court like this. The legal process also costs 6-9 a fortune. That was money if you spent on legal fees. Too much, right? Yeah, like, have a mate. That's what I'm saying here. But being sent off to prison only made him more popular. He signed a $10 million record deal whilst behind bars, and after being released only six months later, 6-9 claimed on Instagram, I got out a jailed $20 million richer. This was supported by a range of extravagant purchases, with TMZ reporting hit-bought, a fleet of luxury vehicles that includes an eventador McClaren Rolls Royce, Mercedes-Benz, G-Wagon, and a Range Rover. All four cars, remember, Guinea-aventador, Reif, McClaren, G-Wagon, all bought a- Takashi's getting iced out too, where TOTE splurged on four time pieces, including a Richard Mill watch, and dropped another 300,000 on a chain-shaped like a shark. This is a half million dollars, half a million. Look at the diamonds in them teeth, and nobody got this watch. If you don't got this watch right here, you're a little boy to me. I'll kiss you when you're four here. You're a little boy. Sit down. King's home is over. It then perches this insane piece of jewelry, bragging on Instagram a million dollars on a chain. Best chain in the game. My chain costs more than your whole chain piece and watch. Lameo, you know who run the city. In a different post-e bragged 15,000 sold out show, Istanbul, Turkey. 500,000 for 40 minutes. It shows off his earnings in videos such as this one. You got one house right here. Two houses right here. Three houses right here. Four houses right here. Five houses right here. Maybe two houses right there. Spending 50,000 of it at the Gucci store in under 10 minutes. He then vowed every week I would try to give at least 50,000 away to someone random for people in need, although while his music was still performing well. His song Gooba released a month after his last day in jail, gained 45 million views in its first 24 hours. This made it the biggest 24 hour debut for a hip-hop video in YouTube history, after which Six-Nine also broke the record for the most viewers ever in an Instagram live. Everyone, he's gonna be irrelevant when he comes out of jail. Six-Nine number one on Apple Music and Breaking Records. Who y'all think is the king in New York? One month later, he'd put out trolls, which again gained 45 million views in only 24 hours, debuting at number one on the Billboard Hot 100. Six-Nine celebrated his post-prison success, however, as it turns out, this would be his peak. Gooba and Trolls became part of the album Taddle Tales, which didn't perform so well. Despite the noise, Six-Nine's Taddle Tales album headed for Underwhelming Chart debut, it sold just 55,000 album units, making it his worst performing project ever. One of Six-Nine's rivals, Trippy Red, laughed at the album's poor performance, which was especially embarrassing as Six-Nine previously said this. Men la, woman la, numbers don't, numbers don't la. The number of listeners per song wasn't lying either, with Joe Biden calling the album a likely financial disaster. He'd state that projections are lower than what it would take for an artist, who travels with 9 and 10 security guards everywhere he goes. That's the part that the public never really deciphered. It's not who flopped and who didn't. It's what comes in versus what spent. And this kid, it takes a lot for him to move around. Anthony Fentano gave the album a three, but more notably stated, from here I'm not really seeing an increase in quality because I think Six-Nine is just diving even deeper into using social media and antics and drama and clout chasing as a crutch to supplement his career. Which turned out to be correct. Rather than focusing on making incredible music, Six-Nine seemed more concerned with social media fame. He began spending time with Steve Old-Dowards, who gave Six-Nine the chance to make some extra money. Steve worked with Rumble to get him a streaming deal, which paid $6.92 million just a stream for an hour per week. However, if Six-Nine didn't fulfill the contract, Steve would have to pay Rumble the $2 million himself. Well, Six-Nine took the money, then went live on Rumble only four times before quitting. I got him a deal, right? To play video games once a week for an hour, $2 million upfront, and just doesn't do anything. Steve further revealed, He had no money at the time, and he needed money to buy broken bags for all these black chicks. He had no money to make his girlfriend jealous. That's literally like the factual story. Explaining Six-Nine lied just to get the money, yet. He told the company I need two million upfront so I can buy a content house. Guys, I did it. Essentially, having been scammed out of $2 million, Steve exposed Six-Nine further, showing he hadn't been supporting his daughter. As much money as he'd given to his daughter for five years, he said $20,000, right? That's $4,000 a year. $4,000 a year, right? I've seen him get paid like over $10 million, one year. Steve then disclosed on a podcast, that in addition to the $2 million he was owed, Six-Nine also owed $10 million to the IRS, $9.8 million to a stripper he hit with a bottle, $600,000 on a house lane, and $60,000 to a home builder. Steve will do it concluded, dude, he's such a broke loser. Literally such a broke loser. And he's just a nasty person in general. In addition to his previous debts, Six-Nine was ordered to pay a million in robbery restitution, although he'd respond by stating, I ain't got it right now. When the judge then referenced this video, Six-Nine admitted that was prop money. I ain't got it. I'm an entertainer, and obviously, we're talking about it, so I did a pretty good job at entertaining people. You know how you have a degree in law? I have a degree in entertainment. But it seems the lawyers representing him weren't getting paid either, especially after his ex-girlfriend also sued him for a million, claiming Six-Nine posted revenge corn of her online, and physically and emotionally abused her. However, Six-Nine couldn't even afford his credit card bill, let alone his taxes, leading the IRS to shop at his house, and see some of his cars. Clearly, in financial strife, Six-Nine made another album, although if you don't remember any hype around it, it's because there simply wasn't any. Whilst his two previous projects had some commercial success, Leia and DeViva didn't chart in any country. On rate my music, it scored lower than one out of five stars, and with only a couple million listens per song, it's no surprise people have called it one of the most boring albums I've ever listened to. Six months later, he put out Blackboard, which seems to have performed even worse, excluding one hit single with Coda Black. Seemingly out of pure desperation, Six-Nine promoted crypto. I just released the dummy coin for the first 2000 holders who buy into the dummy coin. You will be selected to do a meet and greet here in Romania. After which, he was actually offered a lifeline. Takashi Six-Nine. I signed a new record deal for six million plus. It explained Takashi is being paid one million for the album, which will feature ten songs, and he's going to make 250,000 for every concert of an upcoming tour. This all adds up to Takashi potentially pocketing over six million, all held under one main condition. He doesn't get arrested. Well, just one month ago, Six-Nine again went back to jail for violating parole terms on his initial main prison state. In the process, he tested positive for meth twice, so despite being released after 45 days, it seems Six-Nine's life-saving record deal won't be going forward.