These musicians predicted their own death. Number 1, XXX Tantassion. In his documentary Look at Me, X told his record label, The Age of Which He'd Die. And he just looked me dead in the eye, and he was like, I'm not gonna make a past 21. Also, making it clear on Instagram live, that he knew that he'd die young. If I'm gonna die or ever be a sacrifice, I wanna make sure that my life made at least five million kids happy. The final music video he'd ever film was him attending his own funeral, explaining exactly how he thought it'd happen to DJ academics. How does this story end? I live as long as I possibly can, and then boom, I die either of old age. Or somebody murder me or some shit. Shoot me in my brain, I only got to feel two seconds of pain, and then I don't gotta look at you or look at nobody no more. That's easy. Hit Ad Whoever Killed Him Would Be, a stupid person who doesn't care about their life enough to try me, but those people exist everywhere. DJ academics then asks about his car. Hey, how off do you drive that? I... With X then responding, bro, I be driving that and I'm scared as hell, because everyone knows what I drive. People have swerved to record me. I've been scared and thought I was going to die. Well, whilst driving that exact car, six months prior to his 21st birthday, X was shot by a group of idiots who didn't care about their life, just as he almost predicted perfectly. When the CCTV footage was then released publicly, fans realised that his song Train Food described exactly what had happened. No clue what there was next for me. Remember there was people walking talking in the distance. I was dressful winter weather, but the summer rays were kissing me. In the distance he awaited me, with John Lennon predicting his similar fate, although with even better accuracy. Fans had already predicted exactly how he'd die. The Miss Lamb from Information Agency while using a Ouija board, I believe that there would be an attempt to assassinate you. With Lennon stating in a 1965 interview, will either go in a plane crash or will be popped off by some loony? Four years later, he'd released the song Come Together, which contained one creepy line over and over and over. Shoot me. The Beatles had also made a song called Happiness is a Warm Gun, talking about the joy that a person gets from shooting. However, there was one more even crazier prediction. A local astrologer warned John Lennon, he would be shot on an island, prompting the couple to cancel a planned yachting trip around the Greek islands on a boat. In fact, he was not shot on a Greek island, but an American one. Manhattan Island by some loony, who only pulled the trigger for his own sick enjoyment. John Lennon died on the same day as Juice World. December 8, 39 years apart, which becomes even weirder when looking at Juice World's lyrics. In the song, you wouldn't understand. He initially confirms that he listens to John Lennon. Then in All Girls Are The Same, he'd instead claim that he really felt like John Lennon, which was repeated in a different track name New Girl. However, most notably in the song Way Too Much, Juice World calls himself a drug abusing, codine using modern day John Lennon, which would be the exact substance that led to Juice World's overdose. It was December 8, 2019, a Sunday. Well, in the song Sip and Red, Juice World States, I'm really starting to like my demons. One day, yeah, I really wanna meet them. One day, one day, I'm gonna meet him on a Sunday. He'd also predict exactly how it'd happen. I wonder if my habits will kill me. I don't know why, but I get that feeling, further predicting when it would happen in the classic hit song Legends. What's the 27 Club? We ain't making it past 21. We're not gonna make it to 21. Yeah. You don't feel that way, do you? Or do you honestly feel that way? Juice World died only six days after his 21st birthday, as for the 27 Club, Jimmy Hendrix knew that he'd be a part of that. In an interview hit Bluntley State, I'm not sure I will live to be 28 years older. Similarly, during a 1969 trip to Morocco, Hendrix visited A Clare Voyant. When they flipped over a death card, Hendrix took the prediction literally, I'm going to die before I'm 30, he told a friend. Hendrix further told his fashion designer, I don't know how much longer I'm gonna be doing what I'm doing. But there was no better prediction than his song The Ballad of Jimmy. He'd write the lyrics many things he would try for he knew soon he'd die. Now Jimmy's gone, he's not alone. His memory still lives on. He's not gone, he's just dead. Five years this he said. Jimmy Hendrix recorded the song in October 1965, then died four years 11 months later in September 1970, just one month shy of his five year prophecy. John Denver's prediction was a bit more accidental. You surely know him from his most popular song. Country roads take me home West Virginia, but it's his six most popular song that's a little more intriguing. Title leaving on a jet plane, he talks about hopping on a flight and never coming back. Now the time has come to leave you. One more time let me kiss you and I'll be on my way. Hold me like you'll never let me go, because I'm leaving on a jet plane. Don't know when I'll be back again. Well, 28 years after writing these lyrics, John Denver took a flight and never came back, crashing into Monterey Bay just south of San Francisco. This song hits way more once you know that he died at a plane crash. This man left us way too soon, whilst little peeps in Thai discography repeatedly predicted how he'd die. One of the first lines on his very first mixtape was, I got a feeling that I'm not gonna be here for next year, so let's laugh a little before I'm gone, when asked about death he'd further add, Everything changes with time, like you can't predict, where you're gonna be next year, you have no idea. Which was the main theme in countless different songs. In life is beautiful, his state, I think I'm a die alone inside my room, whilst in a different song falling for me, peep expressed, I don't wanna die, I don't want to O.D. As a result, Adam 22 joked, when you come in and see that, just know that that's a little peep memorial. We'll have him a memorial, because he's not dead yet, but he's working on it. Having no clue what would happen only six months later, people would make a final Instagram post reading, when I die you'll love me, which would happen the very next day. Peep overdosed alone inside his tour bus, described exactly in songs like Run Away, I was dying and nobody was there. Two back at a line that was even more chilling, I've been shot murdered, can't tell you how it happened word for word. It also releases song called If I Die Tonight, on which he wraps, I hope they bury me and send me to my rest. Headlines reading, murdered to death, my last breath. Two back was already shot at the age of 23, at which point he'd tell a journalist, they didn't get me this time, but it's coming. The journalist then asked, What do you think's gonna happen in 15 years for you, 10 years, 40 years yourself? To which Two back responded? Best case, the semi-fake, not the semi-fake, just sprinkled an acid smog that my mother always. He'd therefore also tell a friend, I ain't gonna be around long enough to have kids. Two back added, I'm telling you, I ain't gonna live past 25, at the age of 24, he'd release the song Death Around the Corner and claimed he was having visions of leaving here in a purse. The final music video he ever made was for Iant Maddachar, in which he walks out of a venue and is gunned down unexpectedly. Four months after filming it, Two back walked out of a Mike Tyson boxing match and was gunned down unexpectedly. He was as predicted 25 years old, but you can't talk about Two back without mentioning Biggie, who's one and only album he released while alive was eerily titled Ready to Die. I think somebody's trying to kill me, I've been making a paranoid, I've been really scared. It featured songs like Who Shot Ya? And Everyday Struggle on which he states, Sometimes I hear Death knocking at my front door. On another song he wraps, I swear to God, I feel like Death is effing calling me, but it's this interview here that's just downright scary. Biggie announces the name of his new second album, Life After Death, to be released a month after the interview, well 13 days later, Biggie was shot and killed, meaning Life After Death was released 16 days after he actually died. It featured songs such as Last Day, and Somebody's Got a Die, then closes with a track titled Your Nobody Till Somebody Kills You. Macmillar's songs follow a similar theme. There's an extremely long Reddit post, highlighting every Macmillar lyric that foreshadowed his death, and even then the top comment is, There's more than that, my friend. Many come from his 2014 mixtape Faces, which featured songs like Funeral and Grand Finale, as well as lines perfectly predicting, Suppose I'll die alone from an overdose of some sort. On the mixtape hit Further State, a drug habit like Philip Hoffman will probably put me in a coffin, although two years later he'd changed his tune. In his stopped making excuses documentary, Mac stated, On his song Perfect Circle slash Godspeed, Mac further added, They don't want me to OD and have to talk to my mother, telling her they could have done more to help me, and she'll be crying saying that she'll do anything to have me back. I need to wake up before one morning I don't wake up. On that's life, Macmillar told the world, I'm headed to the other side, where the grass is always greener, however there was no crazy align than this one wrapped on brand name. To everyone who sell me drugs, don't mix it with that bullshit, I'm hoping not to join the 27 club, while Mac died three months before turning 27, overdosing on pills mixed with fentanyl. One of his final lines released just 35 days beforehand. I can feel my fingers slipping in a mother-fucking instant I'll be gone.