50 cents for our ease, they were rented. Robbie Williams' castle home, it belonged to someone else. MTV Cribs wasn't exactly legit. And we said that that was my house. Oh, that wasn't your house. No, it's all lies. And nothing shows this better than the episode with Jar-Rul. He flexed his five bedroom mansion on Star Island in Miami, where he talked about living beside other famous celebrities. The house was so familiar that Jar-Rul named each area, calling his courtyard the open paradise, which was patrolled by his guard dog, Cookie. It was shown in the intro that the property was a rental, but this was assumed to be on a long-term basis, given he knew almost everything about the mansion. However, as it turns out, Jar-Rul's house on Cribs was actually a four-day rental, which was exposed in the most embarrassing way by lawsuit. Jar-Rul paid 46,000 for the four-day lease, promising the mansion's owner, it'd be used as a private home for eight adults, with no video shoots and no loud parties. Well, Jar-Rul broke all three conditions, shooting his MTV episode whilst having a party with over 600 people. In the process, holes were punched in the walls, furniture and doors were damaged, the driveway somehow cracked, while condoms and syringes were left throughout the house. As a result, Jar-Rul and MTV were sued for a million dollars, but at least it looks like a house that Jar-Rul would live in, as the Ying Yang Twins crib was laughably out of character. The Atlanta Gangsta-Rapping Jewel were open the door revealing the most suburban house, filled with fish tank sailing boats and sea-related artwork. We were even, we were even like, we decorated this ourselves now. That mansion was definitely decorated by some of white people, not the Ying Yang Twins. This is clearly just a random, all-white guys house that likes to fish and likes boats. That even argue over where they bought appliances and had to improvise names for each of the fish. You can tell the Ying Yang Twins have never been in that house. It seemed they at least owned the vehicles at the end, as the cars displayed by Bowwow were rented for the show. He was just 18 years old during his first crib's appearance, but despite having starred in some high-profile movies, it seemed unrealistic that he could afford a six-bedroom mansion and a fleet of luxury cars. With his name airbrushed above his bed, it seemed as though Bowwow at least owned the house, although the luxury vehicles were a little more suspicious. Because two years later he'd gone the show again, during which a viewer made an observation. We had MTV cribs running in the background, and watched 21-year-old Bowwow, show off his bachelor pad in Miami, along with his pimped-out Bentley, Lamborghini and Cadillac Escalade. But then we noticed the word prestige at the bottom of all three cars, and decided at Google prestige rental cars Miami, and what do you know there was? Pristage was the name of the company that Bowwow rented the cars from, which was likely encouraged by the show, as Birdman also used the service during his appearance. Regardless, people clowned on Bowwow stating, Ha-ha-ha, I wonder if he rented the condo too, which by looking at his life was also highly likely. For example, hit Posis Ferrari to his Instagram, writing, take the drop-top to the night spot, keep the California in California. We went hard tonight, Grammy Weekend, which was then reposted by a car rental company, who accidentally exposed our good friend, Bowwow, pulling up to the Grammys with our Ferrari California. One year later, he was exposed for flexing a rented Hollywood mansion, but the worst example was in 2017, when he'd post this to his Instagram. He showed the private jet he was taking to his concerts, yet the very same day, this Snapchat went viral. So this guy, Lil Bowwow, is on my flight to NY, but on Instagram, he posted a picture of a private jet caption traveling to NY today, shaking my head. Turns out Bowwow's picture of his private jet had been taken from a limo company's website, prompting people to dig even deeper, discovering he'd done this on more than one occasion. It seems his MTV crib's episode led to years and years of faking luxury, but as mentioned in Bowwow's expose, 50 Cent had done a similar thing. 50 Cent's episode was the definition of excess. He showed his 19 bedroom, 35 bathroom mansion, which included a squash court, movie theater recording studio, and its very own nightclub. Equally impressive was his car collection, which included four different rare collectible forraries, leading him to states. I know you may see these before when you was watching cars because, hey, bye ain't got these. Yet it seems 50 Cent didn't have them either. Each Ferrari had little numbers on their windshields, leading to a forum post reading. If you notice the small white numbers in the top left-hand corner of the windshields on the F50 and Enzo, those are the numbers of the cars that were in the Hartford Concourse O Parade, which was confirmed when the user posted these photos. Another forum member added, it's pretty obvious that they aren't his, because it's a known fact that there's only one yellow Enzo in CT, which was owned by a pretty well-known hedge fund manager. Well, someone else then officially confirmed. The forraries are unfortunately not 50 cents. He invited my friend over to his house for this, and my friend let him use his cars for the episode, and they were filming some music videos that day as well. The Enzo F50 and 599, or belong to one owner, when 50 Cent later filed for bankruptcy, he'd admit the cars were rented. He'd instead pay off debts by selling his mansion, therefore joining the likes of JoJo, who admitted to doing MTV cribs, while she was actually homeless. JoJo showed MTV through her Cape Cod vacation home, where she supposedly loved spending her summers. It was therefore a little weird that she'd invite her extended family, but she'd reveal the reason for this exactly 10 years later. JoJo was asked about the episode in a Huffington Post interviewer, to which she'd respond it was so ridiculous. The thing is, we didn't have a home at that point. My mum and I were living out of suitcases, and were mostly in hotels. So that was actually my uncle's house on the Cape. That wasn't my house, that wasn't my stuff. I should have bought hard and been like, welcome to my crib, look at how luxurious it is, and I should have rented out a place. But no, I just used my uncle's crib. JoJo further clarified. So we went to the Cape, which I've never been to the Cape, I like never go to the Cape, and we said that that was my house. Oh, that wasn't your house. No, that was not my house. We brought in some items that I had. That's just, it's all lies. Should also answer the question, why even bother doing the episode then? For the exposure. Oh, I'm good. But no episode was faker than the one by Robbie Williams. He showed MTV his massive British castle, talking about the spots where he'd been snapped by paparazzi. He then shows his group of friends before making a joke. I don't really know these people, but what I do is actually phone rent a friend. But apparently he'd also phone rent a castle. You see, the building was so big that people recognised it, as the famous St. Catherine's Court, which was owned by someone else completely. Jane Seymour. She had no idea that Robbie ever went there, or that he'd hired a fake butler to help out with the shoot. It wouldn't be until 17 years later, that Robbie finally admitted, we didn't let Jane know that I was gonna pretend it was my house. And because I was like 23 and full of spunk, I didn't even consider other people's thoughts or feelings. So I'd like to take this opportunity to apologise to Jane Seymour, but it might not have even been Robbie Williams' faults. Because Redman explained in a DJ Vlad interview, that MTV tried to get him to rent a house for cribs. They wanted me to rent a house. So I could open the big double doors and shit like, oh, look at my shit. You know, with MTV trying to choose the home themselves. The first thing they said was, all right, we got a couple of houses picked out for you. Wow. And I was like, oh, okay. Well, Redman simply refused. And I said, you know what? No, I don't want to rent a house. I want you to come to my house. Accidentally making the show's most relatable episode, he brought MTV cribs to his two bedroom apartment, where he ironed his shirts on the floor, and flexed his frozen fish fillets. Redman's recording studio was just a messy bedroom. Whilst the rest of his house was in such disarray, you could barely notice his cousin sleeping on the ground. He concludes the episode stating, Next time you'll need to find me, just rub these two wires for the doorbell. Don't worry about the screen too. I know it's still good. The realest episode of MTV cribs. Redman didn't fake it like other celebrities.