Bevo, the man who got famous for how he eats his food, a TikToker with such little skill or talent that when he tried to make a documentary about his life, he was terrorised by 12-year-olds who squirted him with water. Bevo is becoming a superstar for all the wrong reasons, the first of which being his incredibly strange teeth. When he first began on TikTok, this is all that people noticed. He tried to make videos about his daily life, yet people struggled to ignore his mouth, eat an apple through a letterbox you could. Why are you wearing a gum-shielded broer? I thought you was gonna bite me, to make matters worse, his name was Brandon Beavis, possibly the most unfortunate last name for a guy with massive teeth. Do you know what I actually love these comments yet? I had that throughout my school life. That's why I call myself Bevo because the Bevo sort of thing. In addition to being huge, his teeth were also unnaturally white. Leading people to think he'd gotten botched for years in Turkey, yet Bevo confirmed that this wasn't true. Listen, they're my real teeth. I might have a filter on but these are my teeth. Accidentally giving his audience another reason to roast him. However, while Bevo's regular viewership was around 40,000, videos about his teeth gained over 10 times more, which when combined with a bit of humility helped him gain his first bit of traction. I've seen a lot of nasty, nasty comments about me. I don't care if I've got a white filter for my teeth, yeah my teeth ain't all that. I'm not the best looking. I couldn't care. Do you know what I mean? I'm having fun. I'm gaining followers, I'm getting views and if it goes somewhere, it goes somewhere, if it don't, it don't. Bevo had gained 90,000 followers, but he'd start to implement a foolish long-term strategy. We've ticked out you've got to trigger people to get your views, get your interactions. With the very little to offer, Bevo had to provoke his audience just to stay relevant. Who's got 90,000 followers? Who's got 10,000 followers on Instagram? Who's done it within the space of nine months? Me and you saw me an egg. Call me an equinolemy or private jet baby. Shee! He'd started to go fun me for a non-existent injury, yeah. The shoulder gofami was fake. It was just a trigger people and it did. It really triggered people. But I just do stuff for views. I don't know why everyone's hating because everyone does it anyway. He'd then tell the world that he'd been living on the streets. Not too great, Aguia, for recently become homeless. Before later admitting that this was also just for relevancy, yeah. Well, what homeless? I never was homeless. He was really homeless. No, no, no. Oh my, Dave! I actually thought he was homeless. I fell off and I had to come back with a bang, so I had to just bash these stories out. However, his most successful rage bat was when he was eating food. I put ketchup on a roast dinner. He just got so much attention. You put ketchup on a roast dinner, it's like, you're criminal. So, I'd tell you. As mentioned, Beavo put ketchup on a roast gravy dinner, reigniting his then dead TikTok with a fresh 300,000 viewers. He'd then post another eating video, where casually downing some chips and a sausage, which somehow gained over 6 million views. As a result, Beavo began filming every meal he ate. Breakfast lunch. Breakfast lunch. I did a free video today. That's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Even if I didn't have breakfast, I'd only met Donald's just to get a video out. Starting every video with the phrase, you know the rules. Despite never specifying what the rules were. Beavo made, I think it's time you explain the rules, eh? What are the rules? I even got a tattooed on myself. You know the rules. I don't know the rules. I'm not releasing one day. Oh, so there are rules, but we're declining to save. They're up here. It seems he just ripped off Dave Portnoyer, who says everybody knows the rules. Everybody knows the rules. Possibly hoping that people wouldn't notice. Regardless, Beavo's eating videos brought his TikTok back to life until tragedy struck unexpectedly. Help me, Beavo fixed my teeth. I've always been known for having big teeth, and that is part of the reason why I get a lot of attention online. Recently I was pushed over by an apparent fan of mine, which caused me to lose my two teeth. I don't know what my future holds for me, as I cannot afford to get them done. I hate how they look, and I really don't know what to do. Where? Beavo raised 685 pounds, and got temporary teeth to fill the gaps. However, this restricted his ability to chew, forcing him to swallow his food half-eaten. I don't know. Do I chew enough? I think I'll doubt it, though. Beavo makes chewing look like an extreme sport. Big ups for surviving every meal. Big up the fact that you drink your dinner. Suddenly, people tuned in to every Beavo video just to watch his strange eating style. This would lead to this infamous TikTok, where Beavo swallowed a roast potato after only two chews. Let's give her a hint of that. Bang! Beavo, the one by potato, was astonishing. The TikTok gained over 20 million views, leading Beavo to exaggerate the gulp in every video afterwards. So I put it on every video after that. I was doing it. You do the extra. You dance it, the extra. People started making times we almost lost Beavo compilations, after which all of his eating videos were gaining millions of views. H. He quickly exploited past 1 million followers, leading a dentist in Turkey to pay for his flights, and fixes teeth in exchange for promotion. You can turkey, get my national soul finally. Big up to UK smart, do you like my one? People were initially worried, stating, Narbeavo, your teeth make you. That's why we watch you. However, little did anybody know, his new teeth would be equally ridiculous. This is the reveal. Big up to Turkey. Big up UK smart, system five days later, I'm not going to keep you waiting any longer. I'm not a Mr. UK tick dot, but chees! Look at that. Bro, pick 10 out of 10 brightness. Drink coffee or something. I just can't stop seeing piano tiles. However, the teeth got worse. Additionally, he could now eat normally, making the swallowing stick redundant, reducing his viewership on every eating video. Beavo therefore announced, I'll be taking a break off TikTok. Before returning four hours later, to introduce his new only fans girlfriend. By this end, you say I'll take elves. I've got to take elves when I've got a ting like this. Cheers! After three months of dating, he'd get her named Tatoo. Got her named Tatoo on me. I'm going to get the date of when we met underneath it. So it's going to be special. Before questioning the very next day, how long will I love her for? They test their relationship that very same week, by appearing together on the whatever podcast, where Beavo revealed their relationship wasn't monogamous. So what does that look like for you guys since you're in an open relationship? Just sex, girl. She brings me friends, I'll bring our friends. Leading to five and a half hours of pure humiliation. You are a cock. The final cut, please. A cock is a person who purposely allows their women to get by other men. For money, yeah. The comments were absolutely brutal. So bad, in fact, that Beavo took to TikTok, trying to convince his audience that he'd been set up. I was basically told what to say. Brian comes up to me and says, I love me to splice some things up. Basically, say that you're in an open relationship, and basically she sees other guys and she's see other girls. Me and Sophia are in that close, healthy, happy relationship. No one else is involved. I got told what to say, and me being me being a nice Beavo, I'm just randomly there and being self-adulterated. He stood subtly flexing his extremely expensive outfills. This burb, we out of the year, costs a battery. Yet only three weeks later, Beavo revealed he was 700 pounds in debt. The fall off is real, guys. You wanted it. It's happened. I'm not enjoying it. I'm not gonna lie, but Beavo's broke. This was clearly impacting his life. I pretty much have skin. I just feel like TikTok has room for life a bit. And I just don't feel like I can actually say this anymore. I really don't, and I'll think I'm gonna give it a day or two and see what we're heads at. Whether I'll go back to work or... Leading Beavo to beg his audience for money. Rachel to support me. The penny, a pound, a five, a tenpee, 20pee, all the pennies can't. Instead, they completely trolled him. I've sent you nothing made hope it helps. Beavo, I'm making 10 grand a month of TikTok. LOL, Beavo downfall and I'm here for it. Beavo revealed his relationship was, therefore, also struggling. My relationship is rocky now, because I'm not earning money, putting pressure on her. I just don't want to lose. So, feel, with all this, because she's done everything for me. Stating found out Sofia is in Marbella. What do I do? Is it over? Despite all of this clearly being a troll. Yeah, I'll bet to take you into the jobs in. Oh, here we go. My views are dropped, so I need a job. Someone helped me. It only damaged his image further. Literally all staged an employee for views. Cos he's dried up, it's pathetic. No talent, nothing. Other than he can deep-throw to roast potato. He explained in Isaac H.P.'s documentary that the hate extended beyond online comments to get right in public then. If you get like, they do have some recent. They're a lot, a lot of recent. Which was seen just a few minutes later, when Beavo was terrorised by a group of 12-year-olds. He'd also been getting booked for nightclub appearances. I've been booked down Barry, and no one's turned up. I've been on what's the dough. Claiming hundreds of people were coming to see him. Bro, I can put in thousands of people to come see me perform. Although in the documentary, he was pelted with drinks, which his girlfriend explained was completely normal. I had a bottle for her when I had the other one. What, you had one friend in your room? Yeah. Because he had one, yeah. You had one friend in your room, though, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But when we, so you had two last time, yeah. A genuinely avoid a club if Beavo was booked. His straight interviews definitely weren't helping either. Is TikTok a real job? No. Why? I'll make him 40 grand a month. Good for you. Yeah. What, what's stopping you for the TikTok? Whenever he didn't get the answer he wanted, Beavo got extremely offended. What do you think of TikTok? Is it a job? Is TikTok a job? No. Why? When I'm earning 20 grand a month? Valuing short term money over absolutely everything. Would you die? A spicy model? No. Never. Why? Because I go about my life. I go about my future. My mission is make 70 grand a month. Yeah, but everyone can see it for like two bound a month. So, in 10 years time, no, I'm just going to care. No, I hope you can tell you. Ask that tell you to tell it to your kids. Kids? Yeah. Yeah, but we're going to live in a nice house and have nice cars. Hit Happily sell his own girlfriend for a bit of extra money. Hey, everyone. It's a tight chase and love. Suffer's dream. Dream. Dream collab. Promoting absolutely anything in order to get the bag. Guys, I think I've had a huge new crypto project. It's based on your Ethereum network. Another new low beaver. I'm impressed mate. He's now resorted to making his own spicy content whilst begging for money on cameo work. Cameo's another $10. It's my cheapest and every cameo price. He's charged $50 when that's $20. I've done $10. Although won't be longer for he sees that the money was never truly worth it.