Bobby Oldtops' really good podcast started extremely strong, gaining millions of views with unique celebrity interviews. However, in just a year and a half, her viewership has basically flatlined, with almost 300,000 people agreeing, I've never seen an industry plant fall off harder than she did. Her career began on TikTok in 2021, making dry sarcastic content on the topic of being a mother. She made only 26 videos before beginning the really good podcast to which she'd adapt her dry sarcastic style. The snippet quickly racked up almost 10 million views. The style was an instant success. This entire interviewer is like the calmest argument in history and I love it. The snippets from her next episode went equally viral. The clips did really really well on TikTok, so I was like, okay, I guess I have something here. But it was the episode with funny Marco that completely changed everything. Because not only did the segments again pull crazy numbers, but the full episode gained over 5 million views without a single hate comment anywhere in sight. It's rare that two people I've never heard of make me laugh for an hour straight. This was special. This is hilarious. Marco has found the white woman version of himself. She should be a permanent duo. This is just the most cross-cultural, funny awkward humour. People loved the honest branding of new episode whenever I can get someone to agree to let me interview them, the next of which being a very important person. My video with Marco went very viral. Very viral. Then Drake liked one of the videos I had uploaded and he followed me. But be there for trying to get him on. I'm going to like shoot my shot to Drake, so I was like, when are you going to come on my podcast? He said, yeah, he was ready to do it. Landing Drake is her fourth ever podcast guest. From an entertainment standpoint, the episode was basically perfect. Not only had she landed Drake who never does podcasts, but she'd done so in a funny intimate setting, was keeping it calm and relaxed. To the extent that people thought they were just old friends. The fact that you were so calm next to Champagne Poppy, because if I was in a bed next to Drake, I would be freaking out. He therefore gained 10 million views in only two weeks and added 700,000 subscribers to Bobby's total count. However, as summarized by a tweet reading, Drake Giverth and Drake Take It The Way, Bobby's interview with Drake began to ruin her reputation. During the podcast, Bobby had asked, and when Drake said that Bobby should get with his friend, she seemed kind of interested. If I could hook you up with anyone who would be my dog, Smigs. Smigs? Smigs. Smiley. Can you tell me a mox? Smiley? Let me show you a picture of him. Is he well known? Or are you just a friend of yours? The funny Marco interview had a similar interaction. Are you heading on me? Uh, you're not my type. What's your type? With Bobby stating she started the podcast for the following reason. To have a way to meet people, and the podcast was like, I wish I could have like collaborate with other people. Meeting new people likely wasn't sinister. After flirting with famous musicians, seemed to annoy her husband, who fought for divorce only six days after, she recorded the podcast with Drake. To make matters worse, Bobby also admitted, I flew all the way here. You did, I really do. On my daughter's first birthday. You missed your daughter's first birthday. To be here. Luber Greta, you'll never be able to undo horrible parenting. Showing she was kind of ditching her family for social media fame. Is it kind of strange, shitting one else that this woman who is married with children is constantly asking during these interviews with these rappers if basically they would go out with her, basically they would sleep with her if they like her. She'd confirmed the divorce in a TikTok post with comments stating celebrity status always ruins the best things in life. On Reddit people stated, she got famous and he stayed the same. Few marriages survived that, whilst the rumors likely didn't help. Did Bobby alter cheap with Drake quickly became a mainstream narrative. Gestinger conspiracy was when Bobby deleted the podcast with Drake and Bobby both, unfollowing each other on Instagram. Dave Portnoy from Bastel Sports therefore sent her a text. My girlfriend says you hooked up with Drake and got divorced. I am saying that is not true. Bobby replied, I'm not commenting publicly but off the record. Your right that is not true. Should share the text to her story adding, I did not want to do this podcast in the first place and now so much negativity is coming from it. I'm going to leave it alone after this, but this is the unsensitity between Dave and I, although despite the nine the rumors the narrative was set. Bobby Oltof left her husband to thawed around with rappers. Would you date someone that looks like me? Because there's just a person. What does that mean? That looks exactly like me. They have a twin. If I had a twin, would you date them? She was like cool, you know. The damage this did to Bobby's image could be seen on her husband's Instagram with comments reading, sorry that your ex sold you out for clout and fame. After which everything Bobby did became some kind of drama. For example, she do a podcast with Little Yoddy with people calling her ungrateful after she said this. I walked into his house and I was super awkward because he's really awkward. He didn't even say hi to me. He's just sitting there with his two assistants and then he comes up. He's like, oh hi, give me a half hug and I'm just like, hi, then goes back to his bottom. I don't even want to do this. I'm texting my friend. Actually, I need to leave this is so awkward. I don't want to look what am I doing here. She wants to make awkward content and then puts Yoddy on blast, shaking my head, gave her a platform and now she's shooting on you. See what happens? People then claimed that her fast-rised fame was orchestrated by her management company. I'm pretty sure somebody at WME started how pulling the strings to set all this emotion. Who also managed some of the people who appeared on Bobby's show. We got a great agent and you got a great agency and you got great guests. Bobby simply trolled the claims. But there were other inconsistencies. For example, she constantly claimed that she was broke. People think I'm joking about being in debt. I'm not. Like, I put every penny I had into this podcast. And told Mark Cuban this. I don't have any money. None. Uh-oh. I've debt actually. You have debt. How much debt do you have? Like $20,000 of debt. Then further added in her Rick Glassman podcast. Every time a credit card marks this out, I have to switch to another. I have like two cards marked out right now. So, hoping to pay them off soon. However, people realized she spent $500 on Chloe Sandals. She is not broke. She is broken. Also, noting that her husband was a millionaire who had 170,000 students who'd bought his $43 course. Eventually, Bobby also revealed that the podcast wasn't serious. So, when you interview these people, you're not Bobby necessarily. You know, yeah, I'm just like a really dry person. Deleting more of the magic that first made her interesting. She mentioned that when she first interviewed Marco, there were no negative comments. However, three months later, when Reddit asked, thoughts on Bobby Altor, there wasn't a single positive comment. Annoying ASF and not funny at all. I can't stand her, don't find her funny, and find it odd that rappers are always her target to pick on like she's better than them. Gives me the ick. I watched a few of her interviews. I just don't find her funny or charismatic enough to pull off the stick. I can see why she's popular, though. This kind of awkward cringeyma is having a moment. Only four days after that Reddit thread, it was reviewed as the not so really good podcast, which stated the content itself is boring. The episodes also like direction and a central theme, probably because they only consist of small talk. The podcast fails to deliver anything substantial or thought-provoking. Instead, it provides a glimpse into how celebrities behave in casual settings, which may seem intriguing to some, but ultimately failed to engage me. The person said that Bobby's podcast sadly points out how real hip-hop journalism has been practically erased while even Funny Marco began to critique her show. For me, it was like, I think you're funny Marco, but let me learn about you. Trying to figure me out, but now it's like the interviews, I think they're like, she's trying to shit on people. And when I watched the interview, I was like, damn, that was pretty bad. As mentioned, she was plain disrespectful during her podcast with Offset, leading him to respond with similar energy. You need a little bit of season. You ain't got no season, man. You like a plain piece of chicken, just on the thing. You pull it off, and then you serve the dish. It's saying this was where many people quit watching Bobby's show were hated by full-podcast episodes that were just promoting products. In the process, you'd also change her appearance, leading to criticism bad enough for Bobby to respond. I am so tired of all of the comments of people saying she ruined her face. The only thing I have done to my face is that I have a little bit of filler in my upper lip. Okay? I do not have cheek filler. In a different video she talked about getting other procedures, which is that I went in to get my shirt injected and I left with a Botox in my forehead, which you know that's fine, that's normal. I have blinds here. I also didn't like that. This would crease so much my smile, so I got under eye filler. So I got Botox injected right here. Which perhaps unfairly has only led to even more hate. Her 15 minutes are up. By Bobby, I am so tired of Bobby. Get off the internet boring. The last couple of months however have been even worse. For starters, the style of the podcast has changed. The dry sarcastic humor has become normal conversation and all the awkward quiet moments are often removed in editing. Strangely however, this only makes it even more awkward and less entertaining as it feels like any other normal podcast. How old are you? I'm 21. You're 21. Yeah. Oh you're so young. I'm on baby still. Well I didn't realise you're so young. I thought we were in the same age and I feel really old. How old are you? 26. You're not really old. This entire interview feels like they are making small talk while waiting for something. She'd also do an episode with Dax Flame in which she was way ruder than any other podcast. What is something fun that makes an interviewing someone fun for you? Um, just having good conversation. Okay yeah, I love good conversation. Do you? Hmm. I couldn't tell. This genuinely was not even an interviewer. This was like bullying the nice kid and making him feel horrible in any way. Then two months ago she did this video here which judging by the dislike ratio was yet another doozy. And then I saw this video of a girl talking about how much she made from her podcast and I mentally decided that she made like at least 300 a year on her podcast alone and I was like that's what I need to do next. Like I need a podcast. I saw how much someone made and thought that's what I need to do. Wow, what a passionate and inspiring individual. To the start of her career Bobby joked, not more money though and that's all that matters in the world but it seems that's now her actual philosophy. I didn't grow up with money, I am on a lifelong journey to get money. I love money space. It's amazing. Ever since doing the interview Bobby's viewership has significantly slowed. Her reputation is far from perfect whilst her interview style has simply gone stale.