People thought laser beams video game could be the next Fortnite, but with only 10 people playing at any one time, and comments calling it the worst game I have installed, something clearly went wrong. It all began with this tweet here, I am making a game, I ain't telling you anything yet, the most like response gets a skin in the game, which lists the game on steam so you can test it with us. Mr. Fresh Asian had made a similar tweet, attaching a short trailer giving their fans a sneak peak. Screenshots on steam showed graphics like Fortnite, which made total sense, as this is what they're combined over 30 million followers, already played and naturally enjoyed. Can't wait for this game, looks like lots of fun. Hooked for the game, can't wait. This game is about to be the new Fortnite, initially it was being developed by Australia's largest video game developer, who clearly done an incredible job when they'd finally released the open beta. Players found it to be a mix of Fortnite and TF2, players are dropped into an arena, and have to kill other players to move up the ranks. Upon reaching first place, you're given the role of world boss, who has extra health and armour, although everybody now knows your location. The gameplay showcase gained 200,000 views, implying loads of people would be rushing to install it. Naturally, Laser Beam and Fresh also began to promote the game. Fresh posted two dedicated videos, totaling north of 3 million views, whilst Laser Beam filmed the game with Lockland before officially promoting the game's release. I spent 365 days making a game. Alright, that's well boss. Obviously it's still early access on steam, but try it out, give us your feedback. Starting at another 5 million views worth of exposure, the game seemed guaranteed at least moderate success. Comments read, since you guys are popular, you guys will instantly have a popular game, although for whatever reason, this simply didn't happen. Despite almost 10 million viewers learning about the free game, it achieved an opening peak of just a little over 1,000 players. The month after it was 800, then 300 the month after that, showing that the game clearly had some problems. Of the hundreds of negative steam reviews, most mentioned the game's poor graphical performance. One user wrote, this just feels like a laggy roadblock slash fortnight clone. I can only run 45 FPS on an RTX 3080, whilst another said I have an RTX 2080, and I get 40 to 60 FPS when fighting. Lower settings. The game is not optimised at all. Getting terrible FPS was a universal problem, as was the game's constant unexpected crashes. The game's early problems were best summarised here. I mean, it's pretty fun, but it needs a shoot ton of work done to it. There are so many bugs that are real easy to fix. You guys should have done more work to it before release. These reviews were acknowledged and rectified. We got mixed reviews on steam because the game kept crashing, but we fixed it. However later in the video, Laser Beam experienced more bugs of his own. My RPGs aren't firing. Look away, look away, look away. Joking that the game is perfect and nothing is broken. Despite this, the game was now crashing less frequently, which should have helped it retain a player base. Judging by reviews such as it'll be a good game, once they fix all the technical issues in bugs. However, even after these problems were solved, Ward Boss was still rapidly bleeding players, as the gameplay itself also had many issues. It gets boring quickly, and I don't get anything out of the gameplay. This game gets boring way too easily. The gameplay is somewhat okay at first, but gets repetitive quickly. Sadly the game seemed to lack any meaningful variety. With the official Twitter page even joking, my favourite thing about Ward Boss is probably how unique of a game it is. I mean, how often have you seen guns in a video game? Guns. Truly pushing boundaries. The game lacked meaningful objectives, or worthwhile goals to work toward. Becoming Ward Boss was the only primary target. The objective was really to just be Ward Boss and just have an HP buff, and that's it. And people complain that even this was too difficult to be fun. 99.99% of games you join are almost 15 plus minutes in, and you spawn with over 500% less health than every other player. I spawned in with 1000 health. The Ward Boss who's supposed to be the best has over 7.5K health. What a legit joke. To put me in 5 straight games at level 1, when the Ward Boss and 4 plus other players are level 15 plus, with 5 to 10x my health is laughable. As a result, players completely ignored the Ward Boss, and just tried to fight each other. Instead of everybody teaming up to take down the Ward Boss, people would just avoid fighting the Ward Boss altogether and just keep fighting them amongst themselves to level up, which kind of made it a mediocre shooter, with no real advantage over other similar games. Another issue was that the mechanics weren't intuitive. For example, when Fortnite was first released, you could watch someone play it for less than 5 minutes, and have a decent understanding of the entire concept. With Ward Boss however, even after watching many different videos, and playing multiple rounds yourself, the concept and objectives are still pretty foggy. It seems the only thing that did work well was the Ward Boss in-game item shop. Despite the fact that the game launched in a broken and unfinished state, it had fallen on microtransactions on day 1. Good to know that despite the terrible condition this game is in, they prioritised adding micro transactions over playability. Obviously this wasn't really fresh and lasers fault, however their promotional activities weren't perfect either. For example, when Ward Boss first came out, fresh hadn't made a video in more than half a year, and returning specifically just to promote the game wasn't exactly the greatest look. The thing is fresh quit working on the game, and quit gaming in general, and laser beam just clearly gave up after that. Laser only ever made the one video about it, and perhaps sold it a little too casually for something that spent so much time on. Five months after they opened early access, the game was down to 160 con current players, at which point laser beam appeared on impulsive. When the game came up in conversation, laser beam talked about it being a difficult business. What about world boss? That is cool. That's cool. Well, games are tough, games are very tough, games take years, and like we're still developing it. Mainly owing to extreme competition. The response is really cool, and people really get behind it, but at the same time when you compete with Fortnite, you compete with Call of Duty, you compete with all these massive games like it is a process to compete. I think the base of the game is great, and we're getting it. It's just, with gaming, it's just so hard to nail it. These are further added to get people addicted to playing your game is like a very difficult task. So I can promote it as much as possible, but it's like they're not going to endlessly just play it because I say, hey, play the game. With promoting a video game being extra hard, as you can't promote it in every upload like feastables or prime, being unable to thrive without constant promotion, the world boss player base only fell further. However, the game's full version release had the potential to bring it back to life, but announced that everything is changing in world boss 1.0 with a brand new map and an actual objective in each game. Laser Beam was hyped about the new updates, which had reignited the interest of over 100,000 people. However, again, for whatever reason, this simply didn't translate into actual players, with the official release barely making an impact. That very same month, playside released their yearly financial report, announcing losses of 5.7 million. On the other hand, there is a risk that new title releases are not received in a positive manner by the markets, or generate the anticipated level of player engagement. This can lead to lower than expected revenue, possibly referring to world boss. Playside therefore accepted that it couldn't be saved and completely stopped updating the game. The official Twitter and Instagram were both abandoned, whilst Laser and Fresh both stopped talking about it. This dropped the player base lower and lower, to the point of being unable to fill a single lobby, creating a brand new game ending problem. No one plays this, it's all bots. Every single lobby is just bots. Lobbies are entirely bots if you can connect to one. Now, I'm not accusing them of putting fake players in the game, but like 90% of these people feel not real. Each lobby needs at least 14 players, which the game really has at any one time. Therefore in every single game, you're just versing 13 other bots, who are so incredibly easy to beat, you can get hundreds of kills with just a couple deaths. My first game I got 185 kills. Love it. Against bots. These lobbies are so unchallenging that once you get world boss, you can just stand still and have the entire lobby spraying you without a barely having an impact on your health. The current state of the game is best summarised here. The so-called players of bots, and the game is way too easy, and it's pretty shit.