From performing on stage with Kendrick Lamar to being passed out in the streets of LA, this is how Welvin the Great Lost absolutely everything. His career began on Instagram in 2014, when his next or neighbor lefty began filming Welvin's strange look and personality. Throughout the video, Welvin often talked about getting women. What was his comment she wanted me to go through? I'm going to her house and then we get it in. Leading professional footballer Orlando Scandrick to comment and joke that Welvin didn't get any. Welvin responded with a video of his own. I'm sitting on a picture. He said, I don't, I do got more picture than you. What's your opinion? Orlando saw Welvin's response and showed it to his girlfriend, model Dre Michelle, who shared the video with her 4 million followers, making Welvin instantly famous. When Dre posted on me, it was like a frenzy. He had 20,000 likes, 11,000 comments, 28 minutes. That day was everywhere. That state, we watched his Instagram started six followers, and then we just kept refreshing the page. By the end of the night, he was at 12,000. When we woke up in the morning, it was 43,000. It just kept getting crazier and crazier. Welvin's voice and appearance came from a medical condition. We weren't really disclosed, but he does have a disability. Yet this is what made him memorable and unique. Sadly, it'd also be the thing he was picked on for the most. But Welvin still loved being famous. It makes me feel like really good. I love it a lot. I feel happy, and I'm trying to keep doing what I'm doing. And would therefore continue to make his own videos. Just 22 days after no bitches went viral, Welvin returned with an upload that completely changed his life. So, that's all kind of the mail today. No, don't. These nuts. Gawdy! Gawdy! By simply telling his father that these nuts came in the mail, Welvin gained over 58,000 likes. Four days later, the entire extended version was uploaded to his YouTube, gaining another 500,000 views in the three weeks that followed. However, it was meme compilations that really sent it viral. The sound by was pasted over Spider-Man then shared all over Vine. Wait! Who are you? You know who I am. I do. These nuts. Ha! Gawdy! Gawdy! Acting as precedent for hundreds of other memes. Can you tell me your name? These nuts. Even Big Celebrities began to get involved. Because don't come in the mail today. These nuts. Taking Welvin the great to a whole new level of fame. Every day we see a new video or a new celebrity posted it. Welvin could in K-pop with how fast he was growing. What are you up to? Followers wise on Instagram right now. Almost like 500. The numbers only kept on getting bigger. Welvin, you're almost a million followers on the grams, that correct? 953,000 followers, Welvin. All of which happened in such a short time. From six followers to... From six you had six followers? From 900,000 to nine. Two months. Thousands and two months. The meme reached a whole new level when a boy used the name to run for president. I'm Brady Olson. I'm 15 and I'm the presidential candidate known as these nuts. I'm wound up achieving a crazy result. These nuts. Yep, you heard me right. He is gaining traction in North Carolina with 9% of voters saying they vote for him. He got 9% in North Carolina. That's about 1 million people. Let that sink in. Welvin therefore joked that he'd also run for president as the D's nuts campaign had helped out with publicity. 1.2 million followers, good guy. Having no bitches was now a problem of the past. I've seen you surround about women when I was at the open mic. Like I didn't even get a chance to talk to you. You heard too many bitches around you. As Welvin began to hang with famous celebrities. Hitme Birdman, Nipsy Hussle, Dan Balsarian, and most notably Kendrick Lamar, who introduced himself as Welvin the Great to over a billion people in the Bad Blood Music video. Kendrick had said that Welvin was a hero, adding he always had personality, confidence and self-love making it out the city. You've heard the praise that Kendrick Lamar has been giving you lately? Outside an Instagram. Welvin therefore joined Kendrick to sing a song beside him, which made Welvin realize he could charge for club appearances. So you're getting booked for walkthroughs now? Yeah. Can I ask how much it cost to book Welvin for a walkthrough? Right now he's at about 4500. 4500? Concern fans wrote, I hope he saves his money, cause this shit gonna come and go so fast. But Welvin had built multiple streams of income. He'd begin to sell phone cases, stating his famous catch lines. Before landing at D's Nutsock deal, which sold 330 pairs in the first three hours. Welvin tried to keep things going with other business deals. I got a video game coming up. Even announcing a more ambitious project. We're trying to shout to see if we can get actual reality TV show form. Although this never came about, and the D's Nuts meme was slowly getting stale. Welvin had so many things to manage on the side, he almost completely stopped making original videos. Therefore he came up with no new catchphrase. You got any new jokes for the first wave? Ah, yeah. Okay. Yeah, you know. Okay, okay. So, uh, we had to check back in what you later. And could only rely on the D's Nuts meme. The D's Nuts guy? Just keep riding by. He's catching his catchphrase. Oh, shit, he's not on his way back. He's not on his way back. D's Nuts guy! D's Nuts guy! Without any fresh new content, people began to state this dude's fame is hella dead. And while Welvin initially loved being famous, this seemed to contribute to him beginning to hate it. I get it all like, and while I go and eat this life. That's what comes with fame, right? Yeah, she helped me out in everything. Welvin also had to deal with articles like this. Stating Nuts was recently arrested on charges of sexual assault. After allegedly assaulting several women, during a party he hosted in California, which had been fabricated from nothing. I mean, get arrested. He'd never been arrested. It was from some site we've never even heard of. To deal with the stress, Welvin had an obvious coping strategy, alcohol. For example, three minutes into a podcast appearance, Welvin stopped the host to scull a beer. I want to name a couple names for you, Welvin. And I want you to tell me the first thing that comes to your mind when you hear these names. Okay, I don't know. Yeah, let him finish his drink. You came thirsty, huh? Finishing three entire bottles during the 12-minute clear. On another podcast, Welvin had a beer-sculling contest, and was almost always drinking when seen by paparazzi. Well, the alcohol often showed Welvin's bad side. It happily disrespect the homeless. Here you go, big boy. There, Welvin. Good night. Not just once, but twice. You're back to the cat. Yeah! You thought you would get my drink? Yeah, tonight we're so drunk at. Which was apparently a prank he liked to play often. Here you go, buddy. Daddy! When fans sung him happy birthday, Welvin cut them off. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Oh! Making comments like this somewhat unsurprising. May my step-brother literally just say new, crossing the intersection by the day, and you just told us back the F up. All we wanted was a pickle video of you saying days nuts, but you had to be a dick. I get you probably get it all the time, but could have been nice asshole. Other people spotted Welvin getting publicly arrested, which again makes total sense. Given videos began to surface of him fighting in the streets. This hostility continued toward his manager, who, despite being a super nice dude, was often rudely cut off by Welvin, who also had no issue with airing private things. This was a problem as his manager controlled his Instagram. So do you run his DMs? It's a Instagram? Yeah, I run a thing. Who was therefore blamed by Welvin? When he couldn't get into his account. I can't get into my Instagram, but I know my password. Somebody loved me out of my password. It got to be him. It got to be. Yeah. It got to be him though. You got to be? You think? Like, it got to be him. Welvin was never able to log back in, and would therefore be forced to delete his insta. This seemed to ruin him his manager's relationship as one year later Welvin seemed to hate him. I need a whole new manager now. The one I have, he just like fucked me all over. And also, what you do. I'm money and everything. Without a manager or Instagram, Welvin's drinking only got worse, being spotted downtown drinking full bottles of spirits, and clearly struggling when speaking to fans. And I want to take over the whole world. Like, I want to do more action, more videos, more spirit. Even more video service to Welvin getting in fights. Although it's hard to tell if this was his fault, given people would always provoke him. Welvin is stuck in a female right now. Welvin. Can you quit finding the understeer? Hey bro, get away from me. Are you shopping Mr. Keys? I don't do that. You need to get the meals. Can you tell me what these type of spray you, bro? Welvin struggled to ever catch a break. What's the deal, bro? What's the deal with you, bro? You know I saw him here, but I was hiding him, but it's a deal. He's trying to get a hug. I thought he was trying to hurt you. No, man. I was scared. No, no, no, like that. Which only seemed to worsen his drinking as Welvin completely blacked out on Hollywood Boulevard. Multiple similar videos surfaced, one of which being recorded besides Skid Row were making people believe he was living on the streets. Welvin clarified that this wasn't true. He'd then upload a video titled Stop the Rumors. I'm alive and I'm okay. And I wish that these blacks would stop at all. He's homeless about Welvin being dead. He is very much alive and well. With his cousin explaining that Welvin was homeless voluntarily. Welvin chooses to go off for days at a time. He has a home to come to. He comes home. He rest for a couple of days. He go back out on the street. There's nothing nobody can do about it. There's nothing we can do about it. We don't want that for him. But this is something that he wants to do. To make money, Welvin wears a shirt reading, sponsored by D's Nuts, Tipped Me or Never Mind, stating in recent posts that life is great. However, with videos like this and other pictures such as this one, people believe he's heading down a dark path. It's sad. He looked like he was hanging around wrong people and they gave him crack. His teeth is brown like he's using. Hopefully Welvin can get some help and get his life back on the straight narrower.