Diary of a Wimpy Kid IV hired a whole different cast from the three original movies. The replacement they used for Rodric was so brutally criticized at ruin the actor's life. I did go through a depressive episode for almost three years afterwards and it kind of ruined my acting career. You see, the original Rodric set the bar extremely high. He was simply a downright legend. O.D. Rodric was the cool big brother that everyone looks up to whilst also being very relatable as a character. In most Diary of a Wimpy Kid character tealists, Rodric is often placed in top position. He's going at us. Best character in the series. He's always great. And then a reddit post asking what's your favourite Diary of a Wimpy Kid character? About 80% of people said Rodric was the best. Much of the character's charm was aided by the actor with people even calling it the Devon Bostic effect. He played Rodric into an unbelievably likable character, but Devon Bostic couldn't play Rodric forever. He was already 19 in the first Wimpy Kid movie and would have been 26 if he appeared in the fourth. Greg Heffley faced a similar problem. Whilst filming the first movie he was only 12, making him 19 with facial hair by 2017. Creator of the series, Jeff Kinney said, The Wimpy Kid movies are different from Harry Potter, which follows the kids as they age. Main character Greg is frozen in his pre-adolescent ambar. You cannot continue to play a Wimpy Kid when you have muscles and a deep voice. As a result for the fourth movie, they'd replace the entire cast. But the studio didn't tell anyone until the trailer dropped, understandably frustrating the fan base. Oh hell no, WTF, really? I prefer the old cast. The new Greg looks like five. Bad. I want the old actors back please. I have a really bad feeling about this. This bad feeling turned out to be correct. As whilst the studio was testing the movie, we got a lot of laughs as Kinney. Then the lights came on and people started asking, Why didn't they use the old cast? They were genuinely confused about why would replace such a good cast. It took us a little bit off guard. Ironically the movie begins with Greg stating this, This combination of people is just not working. But there was one specific character who really didn't work. The new Rodric looks like Lord Farkwad. Rodric is now a Japanese girl. They seriously couldn't find another Rodric. They had to pick someone who looks like they've been adopted. This comment made a pretty good point, especially when looking at scenes like this one. The actor Charlie Wright was part Japanese and had totally different features to the two supposed parents. And while the original Rodric looked like a teenage band member, the new Rodric didn't. He didn't exactly look like a person who'd be wearing a motor head t-shirt. The original Rodric was also the perfect mix of dumb smart evil and encouraging whilst they wrote the new Rodric to just be a stupid imbecile with zero positive qualities. Rodric? That's a mini-save. Being only Charlie Wright's fourth ever acting role, his overall performance wasn't exactly amazing and the internet was quick to let him know. They first mocked his appearance through physical comparison. The Joker, Michael Jackson, Lord Farkwad, Lil Tay, Johnny Depp, Edna from The Incredibles, Leithy is here, the chef from Ratter Toey Randall from Monsters Inc. The new Rodric even looked like a kid the old Rodric would bully. Whilst all of this was happening, hashtag not my president was trending on Twitter, which people adopted and parodied to read hashtag not my Rodric. It was photoshopped onto some paper held by Devon Bostick, leading the hashtag to Go Mega Viral. It gained over 200,000 individual Instagram posts, all of which roasting fourth movie Rodric in their own unique way. He went from your daughter calls me daddy too, too can I talk to your manager? hashtag not my Rodric. You vs the guy she tells you not to worry about. Name a big at downgrade Wait, people value the old Rodric more than ending world hunger and even re-edited the second movie to have old Rodric roast new Rodric. Oh my god. Can you explain what you're doing in this photo? That's not me. The hashtag became so popular people then began a movement. On Monday March 27th when we returned to school, everyone plays right hashtag not my Rodric on your wrist, which hundreds if not thousands of people actually did. Friend, hey you've been wearing long sleeves a lot lately. Are you okay? Me? Yeah I'm fine. Not my Rodric. In the process they changed his Wikipedia. Charlie Wright is a greasy corn looking leafy as he are. Jeffery stars cousin with Down syndrome. Lord Farquhawden Poster willy wonker looking plegly freak, who's playing my daddy Rodric hefly in the 2017 film diary of a wimpy kid the long haul. As you can see he looks like corn and or sock a mama. This is not Rodric. His old Instagram post filled with nothing but insults while literally dozens of petitions called for old Rodric back, one of which gaining over 20,000 signatures. Another petition was proposed on the wimpy kid subreddit. Change upvotes to the true Rodric and downvotes to the fake Rodric. Almost 7,000 people agreed. Things had gotten so bad they'd get help from the old Rodric. Fox just sent me the new trailer for diary of a wimpy kid the long haul and asked me to make a reaction video who was encouraging to the replacements. I just wanted to say to Charlie Wright the new Rodric I gracefully passed on this torch as Rodric. It's time to let go and know that there's new men in town and someone's got a rock and roll and it's you. But people didn't buy it. He tried to be nice but inside he's screaming. I thought he was about to cry when he saw the Walmart version Rodric. You can literally see his sadness from his eyes even if he's not expressing it. Despite the hardcore backlash the studio thought fans would learn to love the new cast. But I think that the new cast does a great job. Kenny believes audiences will come around. People are still so invested he says. It's going to take kids a few minutes to adjust to the new cast and then we're off to the races. I think it's going to be the best diary of a wimpy kid yet. A professional critic even said the long haul is going to be his movie of the summer says McNamara who doesn't envision the hurting the movie's box office or home release. However this wasn't the case. Despite its budget of 22 million the film opened to earnings of 7.1. It received just 4.3 stars on IMDB and amazingly 19% on Rotten Tomatoes. This film is unwatchable. I suffered through 91 minutes which somehow felt longer than the extended edition of Fellowship of the Ring. The new cast was horrific, this script was aimed at toddlers and the acting was the worst that I've seen in recent memory. The movie was further blasted in videos such as this one. With 24 frames of next-stating I legit almost puked while watching this movie. I had to pause and rewatch the originals just to keep my sanity. Jason Drucker who played fourth movie Greg Heffley explained he almost deleted social media due to the backlash and he wasn't even the primary target of the hate campaign. So how did Charlie Wright feel? Well 7 years after the movie first came out it made his own YouTube channel and post a video titled Life as Not My Roderick. When the world found out that I was playing Roderick they weren't very happy. People just didn't like me, I don't know. It explained what had happened as a result of the hashtag. The random death threats were a little disturbing and to have people saying that they wished I was dead just for doing my job and being in a movie was kind of crazy. Also mentioning they cancelled two planned sequels. The other two films that were planned to go ahead after this one were cancelled. Meaning he missed out on a massive sum of money. So for the first movie I made $75,000. Now we made a second movie I would have ended up making $125,000 for that one. Okay last but not least if we made a third movie I would have made $300,000 on that one. He therefore struggled with his mental health. I did go through a depressive episode for almost three years afterwards. Making leaving his house a troubling experience. So I had this feeling that whenever I went out people were either like judging me or hating me or laughing at me. And as a result he just retired from acting completely. It kind of ruined my acting career and to be honest I never really liked acting. The saddest part as suggested here was that he didn't deserve any of it. His style was chosen by the production team. Yeah so this wasn't my idea at all. I don't know why they decided to go with this weird haircut. I just remember going in the makeup trailer every day and having them put an insane amount of hairspray until they turned into like this really crusty, hard helmet bob. And as a result everyone instead began to defend him. The internet owes you an apology my man. Sometimes people forget that actors are real people with real feelings. Goes through a three year depression slump and comes back to forgive his undeserving audience. What a class act. Wishing you the best Charlie. I do know nothing declared we should be ashamed. What I'm trying to get across is that we shouldn't have attacked right or anyone else. Our best option should have been to stay silent and watch the movie because right is a human being. While Twitter began to state while I personally hated the movie and the characters, including Rodric, Charlie Wright should never have received those nasty comments. Therefore his positive attitude has been extremely admirable. Do you regret doing the movie? No, not at all. It was and still is. The best acting experience I've ever had in my life and I find myself very lucky to have been able to do that movie and portray that character.