When Joe exposed his own terrible father, my real father was crazy. He was like a psychotic person. It strangely became a TikTok beef. You lied about me. You're violent. You owe me a big apology. You'll need a bit of context. Joe was born in August 1967 to Joseph Rogan Siena and his mother Susan Lemboa, as a child Joe thought his dad was awesome. Well, at the time, I thought that my father was like a hero. Nothing every kid thinks like that about his dad, especially if your dad is like an imposing figure. But at the age of only five, his parents got divorced, at which point Joe and his mother moved to San Francisco, where she remarried giving Joe a stepdad. Meanwhile, his biological father, Joseph Rogan Siena, lived his own separate life as a cop in New Jersey, leading him and Joe to completely lose contact. But as he entered his teens, Joe realized his father wasn't exactly a hero. In a 2015 Rolling Stone interview, Joe explained, all I remember of my dad, he says, are these brief violent flashes of domestic violence? But I don't want to complain about my childhood. Nothing bad ever really happened to me. It was just confusing, you know. He was just a very violent, scary guy. After the split, we moved to San Francisco, and that was it. Never heard from him again. It was further mentioned that Joe really would rather not discuss the topic, made apparent by its lack of discussion on the podcast. For the first four years of the Joe Rogan experience, he never once mentioned his biological father, but all of this changed on episode 118, when Joe began to expose exactly who his father was. All my damage came from my real father. Before I was seven, my real father was crazy. He was like a psychotic person. He explained some of the worst things that his dad had done. Bebe the fuck on my mother. Look, he would be the type to come up with. He'd be the fuck on my cousin. Really? Yeah, he'd be my cousin. He picked my cousin up by his hair. The rule him and he was a big guy, big scary, crazy cop from New Jersey. I got to see worst case scenario. Someone who just can't keep it together, smacks women, beats a shit out of kids. Further adding in the Rolling Stone interview, when I was five, I had a fight with one of my cousins, punched him in the face over something stupid. My dad pulled me aside and I told him the truth of what happened. He said, did you cry? I said no, he said good, don't ever cry. I mean, he was happy that I punched my cousin. He didn't give a fuck that I was in a fight. He just wanted to make sure there was no crying bitches. That is, in the streets. It was a tax-created advice for a five-year-old. I was punching everybody after that. I was like, all right, you're getting punched. It was so stupid, it was like the worst way of raising a child ever. At this point, however, Joe was barely famous. And as a result, his father won't respond directly to the allegations. All he will say is, I don't talk about people the way they talk about me. That's not in my DNA, what's gone is gone. Despite his father denying the allegations, Joe had clearly been through something. There's something about seeing someone you're close to, who's an adult, beating up like a 10 or 11-year-old. You ever see that before? To the extent that it changed, too, Joe was as a person. Is there a violent person in there? Oh, yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of violence in me, for sure. I don't know if it's genetic or learned or your mom and dad broke up early on. Is it connected to the dad at all? I'm sure it's connected to him also because he was violent and it made me feel very scared to be around him. But I also think it's connected in who he was as a human, as transferred into my DNA. In the meantime, Joseph Rogan's senior had two twin daughters automatically making them Joe Rogan's half-sisters. One of them told the Daily Mail, I was 19 years old when my father told me about Joe Jr. He was not even famous yet. He was a comedian and did a show called News Radio. We looked him up on the computer and emailed him asking to meet and explained that his father would also like to meet him. Joe did respond but not kindly. He referred to my father as a sperm donor. So my sister and I backed off and never emailed him again. Joe clearly had no interest in reuniting with his father. Did you ever want to meet your dad? Did you ever see, you know, it was funny my mom. I mean, I met him. I knew him until I was like, sir. Instead using the experience as a learning lesson. It made me realize that you can't count on people. But you can count on trust issues, man. I definitely, I trust issues. Right there, become someone that people count on. But while Joe thought his dad wouldn't see what he had said. My parents were like regular people, no. They're parents that listen to the show. They got 50 hell they don't. But if they did, they're boorers. They're full on. It turns out Joe Rogan Sr. had always been watching. Conveniently after Joe had made hundreds of millions of dollars, his father and half sister went public via TikTok. So for all you Joe Rogan fans out there, Joe's been telling his side of the story for 27 plus years. Now it's time for the original Rogan's to tell our side of the story. It begins with Joseph Sr. first calling his son out. Line about me. Your father tired of it, Joe. It's had enough. You couldn't handle me. 81 years old. You couldn't handle this guy right here. And when you said I'd beat up kids, I beat up other women. How could I get away with that? You lie. We all know you lie. You own me a big apology. Whilst his half sister supported that their dad did nothing wrong. Joe, you were taken away at a very young age. Unfortunately, you did not get to grow up with the man that we were fortunate enough to grow up with. That my kids are fortunate enough to grow up with. They try to make it seem like they simply wanted a talk. Come here. Sit down. And me and you talk. That's it. I won't tell nobody what was said. I'm a stand up guy. Ain't like you making up stories so I can make money. However, money seems like the more obvious motive. You got all the money, everything, but you know what you don't have? You ain't got two balls. I love when I see the comments. They just want the money. They want the money back. I have a box. Hand or a box. And if I open it, Joe, things would get really ugly. The video concluded with his father stating this. Family is everything. Leading him and the daughter to get mercilessly roasted. Family is everything. The guy who left his kid. So now that you're worth 500 million, I want to fix our relationship. His dad was silent for 27 years about this. He conveniently waited until Joe Rogan was the most powerful voice in the country and worth 110 million to come back into his life and square everything up. If it was about blood, he would have been there 50 years ago making things right. Despite the heavy backlash, Joe's family doubled down stating on a press tour, growing up my sister and I just had such a happy childhood. I just can't tell everyone enough what a great father we have. God has blessed us, she said. My father has never been violent ever. That is why Joe Jr's claims are such a shock to us. My father has never even raised his voice to us. He is the epitome of a wonderful father. However, a podcast episode they did shortly after again, portrayed the opposite. Joseph Sanya introduced his son like this. As he was growing up, what did you notice in Joe? He was soft, soft, it's soft in what way, sir. He wasn't involved with people and he wasn't a tough kid. And then proceeded to state. Everybody out there, I'm gonna take a straight up. Joe's full of shit and playing. He went, the drama school you could see was a drama point. Everything is drawn in the head. If he's that crazy at 81, I can only imagine when he was 40. He then accuses his son of being gay. Joe has sugar in his tank. I met on it. Did you see signs of that when he was young? I'm done with it. Did he ever show interest in girls? I didn't see him much since he was seven years old. I didn't even know you wanted to grow up. But it was clear that his father was simply bitter. I think the role thing they did was give that number one over his head and you look at him. He got big. He's still a big guy in his head. Despite this, Joseph Sanya still wanted to meet his son, stating, I'm on my way out. I'm 80 years old. I'm in the rear view mirror. But I would like to see him. I definitely would sit down with him because he needs to listen to my side of the story. However, calling Joe out made this way less likely. Because recently, when Berk Khrysher asked Joe about his father, Joe refused to give the topic attention. Is your dad so alive? Yeah. Is your dad so alive? Yeah, allegedly. Positively, however, it's made Joe a better person. I watch my kids like, I watch them. I talk to them. I communicate with them. I didn't have a good childhood. So for me, it's important to be a good dad. Talk to them, treating them like, I'm not just their dad, but also I'm their friend and I care about them.