Thick-a-vit received professional reviews of 0 out of 100, whilst his audience called it, probably the worst piece of music I've ever heard. Yet KSI still made 100 million people watch it, by employing a unique but extremely risky strategy. About a month prior to the song's official release, KSI performed Thick-a-vit for the very first time. It was during a live appearance at the Misfits boxing match, and is suggested by a comment reading, I love how nobody hated this song when it was on Misfits. People initially really liked it. Barely anybody disliked the video, whilst many comments encouraged Thick-a-vit sounds awesome, dude. The Thick-a-vit is one of his best songs in a while. New song is so fire, I'm so excited for their official release. Yet KSI was busy with a different official release. We came together to create a luncheon boss competitor. We liked to introduce you to luncheon. Just 16 days after the Thick-a-vit live performance, KSI launched luncheon with Mr. Beast and Logan Paul, although with both of them being embroiled in drama, people found any excuse to hate on the product. General nutrition was the primary concern, yet it was Dan TDM's tweet that involved KSI. What happened to YouTubers, man? I can't not say anything anymore. This is selling stuff for the sake of making money, simple. How does this benefit their fans? This is selling crafter kids who don't know better, then to trust the people who are selling it to them. Do better. Well, KSI responded stating that Dan had sold crappy products to his fans too. Looks like crap to me. How does this benefit your fans, Dan? He doubled down by adding that Dan also promoted and made a whole video on Munch Park to his Minecraft audience full of kids, yet absolutely no one was taking KSI's side. Bro, I'll be honest, you're shit just sucks, and people like Dan TDM more than you were. Take the L-man. You ain't winning this, Tubs. KSI was quick to respond with a video reinforcing his own position when it comes to Twitter to it is just accessible of the most depressed people on this earth. It's like fortune, but with lower IQ. Before proceeding to insult his entire subreddit. The IQ of this reddit has just gone down the fucking pan. So when only six days later, he'd release another thick of it snippet. The audience responded with their own hostile energy. Whoever found this gem, please put it back. This song could probably clear room faster than a fire alarm. I'm gonna play this at my funeral, and then everyone will be jealous that I'm the dead one. A different person shared the snippet to TikTok, warning KSI is threatening to release whatever this is, which received over six million views. JJ's poor image had completely doomed thick of it. And if he couldn't become any more hated, he might as well lean into it. This whole Dan TDM and lunchly beef really shows that I'm in the thick of it, out October 4th. Pre-save link down below. In a different tweet-hid state, a lot has happened these past few days online, so here I am addressing everything below, attaching a link that redirected his viewers to pre-save the song. KSI again called out Dan TDM before doing so yet another time attracting so many people who wanted to hate KSI, then click on the song just to leave nasty comments. This worked perfectly. Upon thick of it's release it instantly went viral, boosted by people who were simply there to hate. Bro took a 1.5 year long break from music, and came back with this. Take two years next time. Pretty confident he got chat GPT to write him a call rap song. This song is the best argument I've ever seen against free speech. On a list of worse songs to ever exist, thick of it took all 10 positions. While even Jay Paul tweeted, thank you KSI you hero. My 83 year old grandpa hasn't been able to walk in years, but when you release this song, he finally stood up and turned this shit off. KSI responded, stating, looks like you've got your next opponent lined up then, introducing the risky but effective part of JJ's strategy, pretending to be annoyed by the hate the song was getting. Today we're reacting to thick of it Tiktoks, you guys are just on a heating rampage. Hit rate tweet videos mocking the song, demanding that people stop taking the piss, before again kicking the hornets nest by tweeting, these stupid fans leave trash comments. On my new song, think they're getting to me. You're not. It's not funny, it's boring, you're wasting your time, againbading the audience to give him more engagement. Thinking they're getting to me, proceeds to make 30 tweets about it. The fact that you keep talking about it though makes me think it is getting to you. JJ plotted his revenge by putting thick of it on six different ad cars to blast the song through the streets of London. KSI is forcing people to listen to his new song, Thiccavent. This has to be some form of punishment. WTF is his caption, it's called marketing, I can't even promote without people taking the piss now, it seems the only person who liked the song was KSI himself. I think the song is an absolute banger, on my mama. Hahahaha. Hiping up the music video because nobody else would. The music video to thick of it is finally here. Let's do this. When he tried to perform the song in India, the crowd pelted KSI with prime. Professional reviewers gave it straight up 0%, or alternatively 5 out of 5 stars, by people who wrote paragraphs just to take the piss out of it. Getting zero support from anyone, KSI chose to give up completely. Hid right generational haters everywhere. I'm so tired of it at this point. Just leave me alone, seeming genuinely sick of the hate he was getting. Listening to the new KSI song, I'm so obvious what you're going to do. Let me ask one second in, this carried over to an Aiden Ross live stream. I don't want to be here, but I'm happy. Why don't you want to be here? Why? Because you're just here to roast me. No, I'm being honest. Your audience is the worst. Imagine bringing your heart and soul into a project, and then releasing it to one of them was like, Hahahaha. I wanted to start. I want people to start making fun of my soul. And singing the song to speed definitely wasn't helping his cause. So many streamers had roasted the song, JJ spent 35 minutes reacting to just some of them, however, as a result, KSI strategy was starting to bare fruit. Look at it in the bright side, at least you're getting pleased. It's growing on people. It's growing. How do you forget a song that you dislike but is stuck in your head? I heard about someone named KSI who made a song that everyone keeps making fun of. Out of curiosity, I looked it up, and now it won't leave my head. I really don't like the song at all, and wish it would stop. Does anyone else have this stupid KSI song stuck in their head because of TikTok? But why is it actually catchy, though? I want to hate on it with the rest of the internet, but I just found myself singing it like a hypocrite. The song might have been terrible, but people couldn't stop listening whether they liked it or not. This video, that got released two weeks ago, is almost on 14 million views. Like, this is going to be one of my most viewed videos of all time. People on Reddit noticed that the most popular song on Genius right now, was post-lite reported that the project was projected to chart in the Billboard Hot 100. The song debuted at number 81, top spotifies viral 100 charts, and brought KSI's monthly listeners to 10 million plus. Ladies and gentlemen, Secondment is now my name, top 10 single. A few days later, JJ went on Logan's podcast, and after the song came up in conversation, KSI admitted he was never really angry. This is a good time for me to tell everyone that I'm actually not pissed. Like, I'm not mad. Hey, clarified there was some anger in the beginning. The two tweets I did at Dan. The first two. I think those were genuine. Those were me like, don't fucking come on my business. Da da da da da da. But for the most part, he was simply baiting attention. Because I had a single coming out, I was like, I can just use this as a way to market my song, and it was just getting a ton of hate. Took people clowning on it. So I was like, all right, cool. Let me just lean into this and be pissed off, angry, tell people, guys, stop, stop making memes. Knowing that they're going to make more memes, stop making fun of me, knowing that they're going to make fun of me more, stop making videos on me, you know, saying that my downfall is imminent. The Sidemen, however, weren't convinced it was all an act. I thought JJ orchestrated it all. He is claiming that now. I've always claimed it. He claims that we know him. We know him. We know that at one point, he was burning. Bro, but referring to this podcast here, I wasn't trying to make a funny song. You weren't trying to be an act. He's trying to make a song about my life. But is the song funny outside of the context? It's a funny! No, not funny. It's funny. No. It's funny, no. Bro said he was faking the anger, whether or not the angle was real, the song did exactly what KSI wanted. With over 80 million streams at $3,000 per million, the song has estimated Spotify earnings of almost $250,000. Throw in another $250,000 from its 100 million YouTube views and Thiccavid has likely made JJ about half a million dollars just from streaming alone. He's convinced now that the dust is settled. People are starting to realise that Thiccavid is actually a good song law. Wait till I perform it to see how hard it goes. And to be fair at a recent concert, the entire crowd was singing along. The song will likely never be respected, but it's still legendary in its own funny way.