Each of these rappers picked a fight with Anthony Fantano with Lil Zan's call out being one of the more aggressive. Back in 2018, he released his first studio album Total Zanaki, which was universally reviewed as being pretty terrible, but no one was as harsh as Anthony Fantano who began his review with a pretty brutal statement. We're not even at the halfway point of the year yet, and this is one of the worst things I've heard all year. Fantano proceeded to call Zan extremely stupid. He sounds like he barely has a pulse half the time, and most of his songs don't really have much more than 10 words to their name, because I don't think he could commit more than 10 words to memory for a single track. With the album's only decent segments being made by other people. Really, the only thing that gives any of these tracks credibility are the features. Zanaki was therefore given the infamous Not Good rating, being only the 17th album Fantano had ever given the title to, as explained by his Reddit, Not Good is worse than zero. This project is a non-star. Which Lil Zan understandably wasn't happy about. As when Fantano came up during a no-jumper podcast, Lil Zan was quick to offer his opinion. Are you Fantano's top? Oh, f**k, are you really? You don't like him? Oh, yeah, he does too hard. He then blamed Fantano for Lil Peep's death. When it comes to rap, I think he has no save, because he gave Lil Peep like a one. And then two weeks later Lil Peep's death. Lil Peep's a great artist. Telling Fantano to stay in his lane. You can speak on alternative rock, on a weird Japanese f**k you like. I know you have some weird f**k fetishes, but, uh, please do not speak on rap. With Post Malone also responding, after getting a Not Good rating, prior to it gaining over 9 billion streams, Fantano somehow concluded that Stoney was not good. There's just nothing special about this album, in my opinion. With the dislike ratio implying that the audience didn't agree. Damn, am I the only one who thinks this album is really good? Fantano then shared his review to his Twitter, where people again replied calling his rating inaccurate, with Post Malone retweeting these comments to his Twitter. Hit then reply directly. But if you gave Jay Cole a mediocre rating, then I'll take this as a compliment, to which Anthony responded, say, every cloud has a silver lining, prompting Post to again respond, and every Anthony Fantano has a dictaclar. Fantano simply responded with a laughing emoji, but it seems Post Malone eventually got the last laugh, as during his review, Anthony also foolishly stated, I think he's, uh, really going to pan out as, uh, a one hit wonder. Post Malone proves his status as a one hit wonder. I think he might have spoke too soon there. On his very next album, Post included the line, Your new stuff sucks, I feel like Anthony Fantano, but it was Logic who spent half of a two minute song, expressing how much he hated Fantano. Logic had been given two different scores of one out of ten or lower, which he'd admit always imposed a heavy mental burden. He would review my music ever since my mixtape, and it would always like f**k me up, because he would always basically say how I wasn't, like, good enough. The extent of which only being revealed, when he'd put out Ladondo roughly two years later, about halfway through the song, Logic begins an unexpected rant. Anthony Fantano, you played shirt wearing Mother F R. I used to hate you cause you'd crap on my music. I used to fantasize about murdering you, choking you to death. He was trying to make the point that the feedback was ultimately helpful, although wound up making Fantano very uncomfortable, who'd spent three minutes speechless after playing the song on stream. He'd eventually respond by stating, I don't know if I'm cool with that, you know? I mean, it's how you feel, but it's a little weird. Like, hey, my reviews aren't that big of a deal. I'm not here to hurt you. I'm not here to hurt anybody. After which Logic dressed as Anthony, to review some of Anthony's reviews, Fantano and Logic's relationship is just downright confusing, but with Tyler the creator, it's much more cut and dry. Fantano was supportive of Tyler's earlier projects, so when he'd then give Terry Bomber pretty bad rating, I'm feeling a strong 3-2-0-8-4 on this album. Tyler wasn't super happy. He'd tweet album B now for 30 hours. How can you review it? Listen to it for a while, with comments on the review agreeing. First time I listen to it, 3 out of 10. Now after 10 listens or so, 7 out of 10. However, even after listening to it for a while, Fantano never changed his mind about the album, stating, Terry Bomb is still bad even 9 years later. This record stinks. It still stinks. I can't stand it, I really can't. I feel like it's aged worse. It sounds worse than it did when it came out. In the process, Fantano calls Terry Bomb the worst record in his discography. But with the album's poor reception, came a silver lining. Tyler explained in Flowboy a conversation that after Terry Bomb got terrible reviews, he knew his next album would have to be amazing, or his career was probably over. Learning from Terry Bomb's mistakes, he'd put out Flowboy Egor and call me if he'd get lost, which Fantano gave each at least 8 out of 10 or higher. AKA a rating MGK could only ever dream of. In fact, Fantano had reviewed four of MGK's projects, giving them scores of Not Good 013, with the Not Good rating on tickets to my downfall, prompting an indirect response from MGK on Twitter. One of his fans had written, I'm listening to Machine Gun Kelly's Pop Punk album. The Zoom is gonna put this in the Rolling Stones top 52030, to which MGK responded and they will be right. Critics try to take jabs at all the bands, your generation love during their moment, and then understood its importance in hindsight. It's made from pure love. The universe can't deny that. Anthony, however, only continue to clown him, writing when the queen died RIP. The queen will never get to hear MGK say Pop Punk. When he and Trippi read, then announced a collab mixtape, Fantano responded with the classic Star Wars meme, pushing MGK to the point of responding directly. Hmm, two friends from Ohio made some songs that no one is forcing you to listen to, insufferable I know. Trippi read further, added, Who cares, dudes reviews be trash, which likely contributed to their collab getting another bad rating. I am feeling a zero on this, a zero. But for one of Young Leans projects, Fantano bluntly refused to raid it. It was unknown death 2002, the review of which took a very strange turn. My hand is bred. My hand is bred. My hands are bred. There's bread! My hands are bred. After an unenthusiastic intro, Anthony spent the entire video simply eating bread, adding in the description, shoutouts, cubs, yeast, and rich flower flower. Saltwater my light bakery, stating his favorite and least favorite songs were bread, raiding the album bread out of 10. One comment theorized it's easy to tell that Anthony is saying he lost his mind because this album is so good and revolutionary. Also, the bread is a metaphor for how much money he thinks Young Leans is gonna make with his albums, although Fantano's lack of enthusiasm rather implied the opposite. Therefore, when Young Lean was asked, what did you think about Anthony Fantano's review of your tape unknown death? It respond by stating don't really care. He should stop wasting his time and do something creative himself instead. It's always more giving and fun. Then there was that time Anthony beefed with Drake. With compilations like the needle drop hating Drake for 20 minutes straight, you might call Fantano one of Drizzy's biggest haters. So when it randomly uploaded a video total Drake slid into my DMs, everyone was curious. Last night in the dead of night, I was reached out to by one of the biggest voices in the music industry. Fantano proceeded to show what hit been sent. Anthony, it's Drizzy. I know we don't really say either I about music and that you're not the biggest fan of most of my albums. But it is what it is, you know. But I'm not messaging you about your videos. I'm actually messaging you because I found a really great vegan cookie recipe I'd love you to try. Drake is sending me a vegan cookie recipe. Fantano proceeds to read the ingredients while subtly mocking Drake's intelligence. He's missing the apple sauce. Maybe just isn't know how to spell apple sauce. That's kind of weird. But it turns out these messages were 100% fake because the very next day Drake shared he and Anthony's actual chat log which included how he really felt about Fantano. Your existence is a light one and that one is cause you're alive and cause you somehow wife to black girl. I'm feeling a light to decent one on your existence. Fantano simply used this to clown on Drake again maintaining this attitude till his recent Kendrick beef to which Fantano would wear his finest suit. Meanwhile, Eminem's disc was way more subtle. In his 2014 song Calm Down, Eminem included the lines, Effing Internet Bloggers. I sit in front of my computer all day and comment on everything. I'm an expert on everything. Everything sucks. Play the next song. When the lyrics were posted to genius that reference a picture of Anthony Fantano who'd therefore uploaded a video titled Eminem Dist Me. So this Eminem man, dissed me in a song. It is me, it's a picture of me. Now Eminem hadn't specified who the diss was aimed at but eight years later in 2022, Westside Boogie implied it was Anthony. What advice has he given you that's really stuck with you? Me not taking blogs personal when they give me bad ratings. It was doing him Anthony Fantano. His name needle drop on YouTube. He famous for rating people albums. Oh, Lord. Eminem too. So Eminem was like, you know, he give me bad grade every time. You can't take that personal because like some people just not go understanding. Eminem's clearly aware of Fantano's ratings, although doesn't follow them as closely as Ronnie Radke, who's currently suing Fantano for one of his reviews. The two began feuding in early 2023 when Fantano called Watch the World Burn one of the worst songs of the year. This song will be in my top 10 worst songs of the year video. You don't know what the other nine are yet, but this is what. Affended Ronnie took to Twitter writing, at the needle drop is like the Paris Hilton or Music Critics. Looks 25 years older than he is, and nobody will care about him in three years to which Anthony responded over the past decade. I objectively look like I've put on fewer years than Mr. Radke, and I've had fewer trips through the legal system as well, referring to Ronnie's two year prison stint back in 2008. Fantano attached four pitches to articulate his point, to which Ronnie again replied, while truthfully the right picture was taken in 108 degree weather in an Arizona parking lot on stage. The other was taken five years later. Anthony, I had to break it to you. The blog picture is me seven years after the live photo of me. So you complimented me. Fantano then accused Ronnie's followers of being Indian bots, prompting Ronnie to predict, we all know what happens to mostly negative critic YouTubers. Another YouTuber will make a video called what happened to Anthony Fantano in two years tops. Fantano would rather upload a video titled, This Guy Sucks, talking about how Ronnie couldn't handle criticism whilst mentioning the darker things the singer's been accused of. He's had domestic violence charges to against him, which were ultimately dismissed true, but the fact that all of this behavior is piling up here is quite sussy-wussy in the process Fantano trolled. Ronnie Radke is the most talented moral intelligence and groundbreaking artist the music industry has ever seen. His catalog is utterly timeless, and I'm honored to call him my friend, lover and husband. Thank you for all your years of laughter and companionship, Ronald, who then responded with his own tweet. Hey guys, I'm Anthony Fantano, newly divorced. After my YouTube spin, I'll be working at an elementary school, reading books to second graders, whilst attaching some pretty funny pictures. This led Fantano to post another video, calling Ronnie's new song, Terrible. We have a big dose of cringe for you guys today, as we have a brand new falling in reverse track titled, Ronald. After which, their beef hit a whole new level. Falling in reverse frontman Ronnie Radke has filed a defamation lawsuit against music critic, Anthony Fantano. The lawsuit centers on a video Fantano released titled, This Guy Sucks, in which if you remember, Fantano talked about some of Ronnie's accusations. This man just said that I sexually assh... Someone pretty much, he's implying that I did it. 100% I had zero contact with her. I sued this woman, and won because I would never do something disgusting like that you loser. And yes, my domestic violence got dropped because that didn't happen either. Sir, this makes you liable and court. I will sue the ever-living beef out of your ass. I will take everything you have. The lawsuit claims Fantano's video work goes beyond the bounds of permissible commentary and extends well into the realm of actionable innuendo, unfounded rumour-mongering, and outright untrue. Why does Ronnie take everything so personally? Law, most people just kind of ignore haters and go about their day. It seems like he takes it as such heart and lashes out. The situation hasn't yet been settled, but suing after being criticized never looks good.