Andre the Giant's size gave him everything, the largest and highest paid and best known wrestler in the entire world. Once being listed by the Guinness Book of Records, as the highest paid wrestler ever, these same genetics however made his life a living hell, with Andre famously stating, I would give much money to be able to spend one day per week as a man of regular size. When he was born, Andre already weighed 13 pounds or 6 whole kilos, which is almost double the average male baby, weighing 3.3 kilos or 7.5 pounds. Growing up, Andre played soccer, with his childhood friend stating he used to be the goalie, but the ball would never go in because he was so big. By the age of 12, Andre was 6 foot 3 and 240 pounds or 108 kilos. I started when the school I was bigger than the older kids. It was too big to fit on the local school bus, and his family didn't have the money to buy a car that could deal with his weight. As a result, Andre left school to work on a farm, where one day a friend of the farm's owner drove slowly past the field in a Rolls Royce. I will own such a car as that someday, Andre said quietly. Stop dreaming and start raking his father applied. You are a big boy, but that dream is too big even for you. According to his brother, Andre did the farm work of three different men, and would drive an unregistered car as the cops wouldn't dare to stop him. When he tried to join the military, Andre was deemed unfit for service, as there were no shoes big enough, bunks long enough, or trenches deep enough to accommodate him. Yet these same issues made him a wrestling sensation. He'd officially become Andre the Giant, a famous televised wrestler, but more notably had grown so much, his own parents didn't recognise him when he came back home. My parents, there was a big sign of me on this so many TV, but they don't know. I was a fan and he didn't know it was you. No, we've got a transplant. At over seven foot tall and 500 pounds or 227 kilos, Andre saw a doctor that had figured out why he had grown so much. Acro megaly was the diagnosis. A rare one in 12,000 brain tumour, causing the body to produce excessive growth hormone. It leads to extra large hands, feet and fingers, as well as a bigger jaw nose, lips and tongue. According to Ripley's Believe in or Not, his fingers were so big around that the ring he wore had an opening that could easily fit a silver dollar, which is 38.1 mil, to put the size into perspective the average man's finger is around 10 to 11 mil around. This could be seen in interviews like this, With people on Reddit adding, favourite fact is that Andre was so large, he could push a hard boiled egg through his wedding ring. My wife met him once and instead of a handshake, she said she could only shake one of his fingers. These elements made him so unique that when doctors offered to remove his tumour, Andre bluntly refused. I'm because he thought I would interfere with his career as a wrestler. It's stated if this is the size that God wanted me to be, I'm going to be this size. I use whatever God give me, I'm not supernatural, I just myself. So what you're giving me, I use it to make a living. However, this gave him a short life expectancy. The commission doctors at Madison's work Garden told me he's going to be lucky to live to be 40 and meant he'd keep on growing until the day he died. By the time he joined the WWE, Andre had reached 7 foot 4, peaking at 560 pounds or 225 kilos. What size boot is that Andre? That's 22, that's 22. Take a look at that along my size 9. This made him the most successful wrestler ever. Without a doubt Andre was the most famous wrestler in the world. Yet it also continued to make his life harder. It's difficult everywhere where I don't, then I'm doing anything for big people. They have their everything for brown people, for creeper people, for some other people, but not for big people. Andre was constantly visiting new cities. The nature of your job, you're traveling all the time, aren't you? Like 320 nights a year. Yes. Which came with its own set of challenges. Hotel beds, are they a problem? I tried to find a hotel where you get a king size bed. There was someone that went to Japan, all those guys so small. Sure. Even in a hotel, I can go to the door, I can go to the bathroom, there are things that I'm so sorry. Andre was too large to fit inside most cars. I'm talking with a car, I need two cars. That's right! You can't even get in it. There is no way for the giant to leave anymore. Yes, sir. That's true. Well, you can put one car in each foot. Taking a taxi wasn't a better alternative ever. Funny story of my time, we couldn't get a taxi because he was so big. And when they finally got one, Andre was charged extra. Last time I met you there, and when you sit at the counter, he charges double. So you're a big guy, you have to pay double. It seems the flying was Andre's only option, where he'd have to book the entire exit row. However, thankfully, he was able to fix this problem. What about plane travels? That get all day after a while, awful? I go in first, man. We're animal-y, man. Despite this costing an absolute fortune, I'm traveling so much, nice to have a bike for 67,000, just an up and thinking. There was still another even bigger flying problem. Andre couldn't fit inside the toilet. He therefore had to relieve himself prior to boarding. Andre was always tired, so that he would take a dump before he went to the airport. But in one notable instance, he forgot to go beforehand. He's up in the first class, and he tells him, you know, we're gonna go, and they're like, oh my god, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? The on board solution wasn't exactly glamorous. He would relieve himself into a bucket, and then they'd bring an in and dump an into the toilet. But in retrospect, the story's pretty funny, yes. A smell that started coming out. There was people falling out of their seats almost into the aisles. You can cry and scream. Sadly, this didn't only apply to planes. Where does he shit? In the bathtub? No. There's no toilet, I'll take his ass. And with monumental bells came monumental farts. It sounded like, you know, like a deep roar, kind of like thing it would rumble. On the set of Princess Bride, this actually halted production. He lets out the most monumental farts. The whole supply would set with shake it, and the sound guy lifted his headphones off his ears and like was doing that. And it went on for some time. It was 16 seconds. While Andre's former wrestling opponents thought the wind lasted even longer. And I could feel my fucking shoulder his vibrate like, you know how long a giant can fart? How long? About 40 seconds. Andre was so different to everybody else. It got to the point of public ridicule. Hulk Hogan explained when would walk through the airports if he got a head of me. I'd hear all the unkind things that people would say. Oh my god, look at that guy. It would just break my heart. They perceived him as a freak of nature. And that hurt Andre more than anything. This guy was very sensitive. Boss sometimes, they laugh at me, they pointed at me. He hurts my feelings. You never think a guy like that would cry, but he would cry. Andre stated in an interview, I would give much money to be able to spend one day per week as a man of regular size. I would shop and I would go to the cinema and drive around in a sports car and walk down Fifth Avenue and stare at the other people for a change. Disguising himself in public simply wasn't possible. Mohammed Ali could put on a trench coat in a ball cap. Andre the giant couldn't hide in the back seat of a car. Instead opting to numb himself completely. He never, ever, ever were drinking. He drank from the time. He got up to the time he went to bed. If he could figure out a way, he'd just done it in his sleep. While Andre's drinking feet are often highly romanticized, there's no denying he had a serious problem. He started drinking about nine o'clock and he drank like, I'm not exaggerating, like 20 bottles of new ball, ball joy. Doing so to cope with his difficult life. He drank because he was in pain. His spine and his neck and his knees gave him over trouble. He drinks six bottles of wine before every wrestling match. With Jake the snake explaining that Andre once drank 48 beers in a single car trip. He drank two cases of beer and you're not had to piss. How can you do that? This was nothing compared to a different night. Is it true that you were in one sitting drunk, 117 beers? Yes. Were you drunk at the end of that? I don't think I'm on that. I didn't have my style. With Andre's unofficial record being, a 156 beers in one sitting, which fellow wrestlers dusty roads and Michael Hayes confirmed. However, this only added extra weight onto his body. I myself saw him almost every night. Drink 7,000 calories worth of alcohol. Which seemed to be the primary motive for why he eventually quit. But you don't drink anymore. Not since 14 months ago. Uh, you feel better for not drinking? Yeah, because when I was drinking beer, I used to weigh family and 60 pounds. And you've trimmed down now to... I'm not for 70. This led to the infamous Andre the Giant vs Hulk Hogan, after which his career was basically over. When he next came to a match, Andre was using crutches, showing the decline of his physical health. He'd retire to a ranch in North Carolina, until he flew back to France for his father's funeral. He'd take this photo after the ceremony, without realizing that three days later, Andre himself would die of a heart attack. I'd like to announce the death of one of my favorite wrestlers and one of the most famous wrestlers of all time. He died this week in Paris, France. After going home to his father's funeral. His body was too large to fit in any French crematorium, and as a result, he was shipped back to the USA. His ashes weighed 17 pounds or almost 8 kilos, being just another reason he's remembered as a legend.