Jack Black is a national treasure. We must protect him at costs. Comments such as this were normal just one year ago, but after a string of unexpected controversy, he's not only losing thousands of followers, but every Jack Black comment section is flooded with negativity. Compare this to only 11 months ago, when we listed Jack Black, among celebrities who have basically zero haters. There was nothing controversial about him. In a Reddit thread asking about the most beloved celebrities, one of the top comments was Jack Black. He's just such a lovable guy. How could you not like him? He never took life too seriously, always trolling the paparazzi and acting like a fool for the public's entertainment. By starting his own YouTube channel, Jack Black showed that actors are still just normal people. Hey, what's up, it's me Jack Black. This is my new YouTube channel, Jablinski. Giving him a relatable edge that made his fans adore him. So when it faces first controversy roughly two years ago, his audience was generally forgiving. Jack Black had shown his support for a charity named Autism Speaks. Articles explained in 2013 he hosted an Autism Speaks Benefits, and in 2015 performed at the lighted up blue Autism Speaks fundraiser. In 2018, Hit Promote the Charity by a Twitter, perhaps ignoring it being extremely controversial. Autism Speaks hates autistic people. For over a decade, Autism Speaks tried to find a cure for autism. They treated autism like it was some type of disease that could be cured. People therefore complained on Twitter, friendly reminder that while Jack Black is currently trending, he has donated to Ablest and Eugenicist organizations, like Autism Speaks and Next for Autism, that focus on fixing and curing autism and neurological condition. He has also attended Autism Speaks Garlers, yet his audience gave him the benefit of the doubt. Maybe Jack didn't know it was a bad company and was just trying to do something good and got jute. Just playing devil's advocates, what if he's unaware of the problematic issues? Jack Black seems like a decent person. This explains why Hit also give political opinions, but with his comments now reading, never get political, it always ends wrong. This would become a primary reason for the fall of his reputation. Now, Jack Black has always been politically outspoken, but when make his arguments subtle and funny, in the classic Jack Black style, for example in 2017, Tanasia's deep performed this government totally sucks, in which they joke about Benjamin Franklin getting naked and smoking weed. Similarly, in 2020, Jack Black made his own commercial, stating it's time to be a hero, a hero with a mask. Not this kind, but this kind before jumping headfirst into his pool. Videos like that were pretty smooth and inoffensive, however by 2023, his political opinions were less about the comedy and significantly more direct. For example, Hit gave his opinion on the Israel-Palestine War, for which he was heavily criticised, to the extent that people called for a kung fu panda boycott. When he shared an image reading, climate changes the human rights crisis, the comments again weren't too positive. Good bye, Jack, you lost me down. Nobody needs you to guide them politically. You're a professional court jester, that's why we watch you. OMG, LMFAO, Jack Black you've gone down the gutter. In the meantime, about half of his Twitter became political retweets, heking in June 2024, when Jack Black endorsed the president. He proudly reposted the video to his Twitter, but with almost as many replies as the post had likes, it's safe to say his message didn't land so smoothly. Love your work, I just wish you didn't endorse anyone. Hollywood needs to stay out of politics. You're a part of a lot of people's childhood laughs. Now you're just a deadbeat sellout. What a shame. You've only alienated your fanbase. We're here waiting for you to do better, although these were the more polite replies as they only got worse. Over 15,000 people supported a response reading, add Jack Black to the list of peto wood elites. Reposed if you aren't surprised, numerous other memes pushed similar allegations. With another person straight up stating, here's an awesome tip. Stay away from the petophile at Jack Black, just because he endorsed a presidential candidate. A different fan expressed, I'm so beyond certain by this political shilling. The word disappointing isn't strong enough, and I just attended one of your recent Houston shows. Well never again Jack, and in a poll asking have you lost a respect for at Jack Black? 85% responded with yes. The poll was likely somewhat biased, but still for the first time ever, Jack Black was losing followers. However this likely was an a massive concern as he was busy with something else completely. Tanasia's D Jack Black's band had been travelling the world on their spicy meatball tour. They'd been through North America, all across Europe, and had landed in Australia just 24 days after Jack's presidential controversy. They scheduled their second show in Sydney for bandmate Carl Gas's birthday, celebrating on Instagram before the show started. This continued into the band's performance, which would lead to the following interaction. Mixed feedback immediately rolled in. Some people said that they're a comedy band that make dark jokes. It was a joke they make jokes. J.B. and K.G. are good human beings with good intent, whilst others plainly stated, sorry Jack, but I'm out. When Senator tweeted there is no place in Australia for those who wish for the assassination of others, demanding that Tanasia's D must be deported immediately. As a result, Carl Gas apologized, writing the line I improvised on stage Sunday night in Sydney was highly inappropriate, dangerous, and a terrible mistake. I don't condone violence of any kind in any form against anyone. What happened was a tragedy, and I'm incredibly sorry for my severe lack of judgement. I profoundly apologized to those I've let down and truly regret any pain I've caused. Jack Black added I was blindsided by what was said at the show on Sunday. I would never condone hate speech or encourage political violence in any form, but after rewatching the clip, people didn't buy it. Black was blindsided. He laughs when Carl says it. He doesn't condone that kind of speech, but you see him laughing when the comment is made. Jack's apology continued. After much reflection, I no longer feel it is appropriate to continue the Tanasia's D2R, and all future creative plans are on hold. I'm grateful to the fans for their support and understanding. He'd stayed in an interview three weeks later, we need to take a break. Everybody needs a break sometime and we'll be back, but it was already too late. Even those people who didn't mind the joke were disappointed by Jack's lack of support for his bandmates. Your friend of over 30 years says one bad throw away joke that gets an overreaction, like have at least a bit of backbone and stick up for your friends. A different person said the weird thing with canceling the Tanasia's D2R over a bad Trump joke tells me yeah, dude cares more about money above all else now and we'll throw friends under the bus to maintain cash flow. The public no longer gave him the benefit of the doubt. Jack Black is the ultimate sellout cloud, which began to impact his future movies. I remember a time when seeing Jack Black in a movie excited me, now I skip it completely. Borderlands got 10% on rotten tomatoes and has been considered one of 2024's worst movies. On the deaccentre trailer people criticised, Jack Black just jumping on every movie these days and nothing showed this better than his casting as Steve. There are many reasons why Minecraft's trailer has already gained over 1 million dislikes, the main one being according to Forbes, the appearance of Jack Black as Steve, where he simply looks like every day Jack Black in a blue shirt with his now signature wild hair and grey straight beard. It's absolutely bizarre. He's basically just playing Jack Black but in a blue shirt. It looks like he rolled out of bed and they gave him this blue shirt instead. All right, now you're Steve. He could have said I am Jack Black and it would have made zero difference. They gave Jack Black a blue shirt and called it a day. People joke that the director should have instead been cast as Steve leading Jack Black to respond to the hate. I just think the backlash we're getting is ridiculous, especially from grown men who don't get that this movie isn't just for them. It's for a new generation yet it seems the new generation don't want it either. My son is a Minecraft kid in elementary school. He told me that when they heard it was live action, all of his friends declared it was total trash. This doesn't even appeal to the target audience. As a result, Jack Black's rapidly losing followers on every social media. He pulled it to Dwayne Johnson and became a soulless corporate husk of his former self who plays the same character in each of the far too many terrible movies he's in.