Haley Welch initially seemed to be a genius, turning her meme into a career that made hundreds of thousands of dollars. However, it only lasted 176 days before she realized that success could also be a nightmare. It all began on this channel here, Tim and DTV. They had just 21,000 subscribers, gained from doing straight interviews in Nashville, Tennessee, where they'd meet two unknown people who were out having fun. Chelsea Bradford and her friend Haley Welch, with some drinks in their system they answered basic questions. Until the interviewer asked 12 words that changed the course of history. Roughly two days later, on the 11th of June 2024, Darius reposted this snippet to his Instagram. Again, he had just a couple thousand followers, yet this didn't stop the algorithm from making the video viral. 18 million views and almost 500,000 likes. The clips went equally viral on TikTok, where everybody clearly loved her. She's a total viber. Protect this woman at all costs. Hock tour for president. However, Haley was disappointed that this didn't translate to income. It was therefore announced Hock tour official. We are selling authorised merchandise, representing the Hock tour girl, so she is getting part of the proceeds. Get all of your apparel here. Haley had launched her own line of hats, selling for between $30 and $40 each. It took only 9 days before she'd announced, our infamous signed Hock tour hats are now sold out. With Rolling Stone therefore reporting, Hock tour girl has already sold at least $65,000 worth of merch. Even Joe Rogan was keen to buy a piece. Showing Haley she was able to commercialise the meme. There was just one problem. Nobody knew who she even was. The only information given was that her name was Haley Welch, which wasn't all that useful as she had no social media. I was like, where is she? Finding the Hock tour girl became a search for millions with people stating on Instagram Ossum had been loud and had less people looking for him. Some believed she was a preschool teacher, while others were certain she worked in a bar. However, both of these rumours were smashed when Haley addressed the public in her first podcast appearance. I worked in a spring factory. I'm not a school teacher. That was my next question. Haley further revealed she'd been offered some crazy money, and as a result she'd hired herself as social media crew. But her capitalisation began to repulse the audience, an entire management team in a week, wild. The fact that she already has an entire management team is insane. You made a drunk joke, and the next day you have whole management behind you, this world is crazy, that help her appear at a Zach Bryan concert. While she began to sell merch on a much larger scale. You already have a deal with Spencer? That's awesome. Like every Spencer is everywhere? How can I go buy a Spencer's ear? I got shirt. She'd become friends with Jake Paul, tried to trademark the Huck to her phrase, and was suddenly being followed by TMZ. Tows. They want pictures of my toes. They want pictures of your toes? I don't want to sell pictures of my toes. Even Eminem used the phrase to promote his new album, whilst more than one person got a Huck to a tattoo. She passed a million Instagram followers in less than 30 days, and was being paid 30,000 just to appear at clubs. However, if you're given success without first going through hell, you'll find that the hell creates itself later. Her Instagram comments began to change rapidly. Whilst they once read she's a national treasure keep this woman safe, they quickly transformed into this has to stop. This is pathetic. Isn't this embarrassing? Disappointing us, world we live in. Making Clown's famous part 1,062. Suddenly she had actual problems to deal with. I have to convince my pop-up not to shoot the paparazzi outside of our house every day, because I've been camped out here for like two weeks. Creating paranoia on a day-to-day basis. It's really strange. I can't really go and public by myself anymore. I'm paranoid of getting kidnapped or something. Because it was a video of you with five security guards, is that because you're paranoid about that? Yes. And I'm little too, so I mean I can't really defend myself. It seems Haley had realized that fame kinda sucks. What's the worst part about being famous? Everybody looking at you when you walk into a room. You don't like that? No. Does that feel unsafe a little bit? Yeah, it's a little bit. Although she continued to take advantage of it. She launched her own fanfics, which is like a safer work only fans, and charged $10 a month to an unknown amount of subscribers. She'd also launch an AI dating app named Puke Tools, which received amazing reviews such as disgusting. Haley wasn't lying when she answered, essentially doing anything that offered her paycheck. This was further proven by the Talk to a Podcast, launched as a vehicle to promote Jake Paul's gambling company. The podcast was so terrible even Jake Paul himself roasted it. Why did you decide to start Talk to a? It's just stuff that has never been talked about in modern history. Scientific, historic, revolutionary wisdom. It's just an honor to be pushing the humanity for, and that type of way. However the Talk to a comments were absolutely golden. My phone was at 1% when this was posted. I unplugged my grandma's life support to charge it. This podcast truly changed my life. Currently fighting on the front lines in Ukraine, and everyone has called truce to watch app one of the Talk to a Podcast. Amen. I have stayed clean from drugs for over 30 years. Thank you Talk to a for making me start again. These same trolls have given it an almost perfect IMDb score, calling the podcast a genre defining masterpiece. The show's quality is better summarized by its crazy amount of dislikes. Hayley's reputation clearly wasn't great. So when she'd host an episode with Mark Cuban, she probably should have avoided the following touchy subject. Do you do anything with crypto? Yeah, I do a lot with crypto actually. I got a shit ton of Bitcoin and Ethereum. Going back to the point of doing anything for money, it seems Hayley was paid to shout out cryptocurrency. So after I saw Michael Saylor speak at the Bitcoin conference, I had decided to start putting some money into crypto and I just want to say, oh my God, thank you so much Mr. Saylor. And was more than willing to make her own token. I follow to memecoin, can I give you some tokens? Yeah, I do not want that. Okay. Are you sure you're lying to me? I don't know, I'm not a big fan about memecoins. She'd take the Twitter showing her favorite memecoins, announcing a hook to a token was also coming soon. Well, on the 4th of December 2024, 176 days after she first went viral, Hayley officially launched it. Despite calling it the hook to a memecoin, its website re-shored the audience. Hock isn't just a memecoin, it's part of the culture. Hayley is using her meme to unite her entire community. However, community notes instantly clarified. 96% of the Hock coin supply is in 10 connected addresses before the launch, essentially meaning just 10 people controlled the coin's price. When a user suggested the coin was likely a scam, Hayley responded by stating fake news. But appreciate you trying to protect the community, however it didn't take long before tweets started appearing. Lost 85% of an 1100 pound investment. I lost 10k bro, I got rubbed. Just lost 286k on this. Don't trust Meta Mask Wallets. Hayley's co-creator called these people mentally ill. There's a lot of negativity in the space. I think crypto brings the mentally ill into this thing. If you guys are in crypto, you're most likely mentally ill. It's just a bunch of miserable people trying to farm engagement and hate. With Hayley herself blaming the losses on something they couldn't control. We got snipe bought it today, but we didn't sell a single token. But I just want to say, screw the snipe robots and I'm not going anywhere. Coffee Zilla joined in called the project. This is one of the most miserable horrible launches I've ever seen in my life. Okay, that's why the fuck are you on? Questioning how much money H found a maid. Someone just made over a million dollars on fees. Who made it? The creator. Which is who? That belongs to the project. Who's the project? Who is the project? Ely Welch, right? This is the worst tokenomics I've ever seen and it is a scam. It's not a scam. The tokenomics are a scam. You can say whatever you want about it. You can cry, defamation. That's my opinion. It's a scam. As the pressure mounted, Hayley disappeared. I didn't interrupt you, Nate. But, Nate, I'm going to go to bed and I'll see you guys tomorrow. He brought back by a class action lawsuit launched by a dozen plaintiffs who claim to have collectively lost more than 150,000. To Hayley's credit, she took responsibility stating if you've experienced losses related to this, please contact Burwick Law. Furthermore, it seems she had no idea exactly what she was getting into, although it's still her fault if she put her name on it. Her Instagram hasn't helped either. The only post Hayley's made since pulling the scam is a video of her taking a lavish holiday. Makes you wonder if this trip was funded by the meme coin proceeds. Enjoy your time before getting shipped off to prison.