Plants First Zombies 1 was truly video game perfection. Reviewers couldn't find even one thing wrong, with its simple addictive gameplay. Compare this to the recent Plants First Zombies 3, which people have called a game that straight-up comes from a garbage can, in which watching 30-second ads for double coin rewards is more fun than the game itself. Let's explore how Plants First Zombies eventually lost its way. From an amazing tower defense game, fallen to the extremely predatory mobile game landscape. Firstly, what made the original so damn good? At a price of just $2.99 in the App Store, with no ads or extra in-game purchases, Plants First Zombies 1 was simply amazing value. The easy first level gets players addicted immediately. It just won level the game already doctorates you into its gameplay cycle flawlessly, and in a fun way. With one 5-star review writing, I won't say that the game is a cakewalk, but it isn't particularly challenging either. Still, the game offers enough mental stimulation that I never once grew bored. This is due to the game's incredible variety, offering loads of different Plants Zombies and music, with comments stating that soundtrack alone is enough to make you want the game. This makes it so entrancing that people can play for hours, which led to crazy commercial success. In addition to almost perfect professional reviews, Plants First Zombies became the highest rated App Store product, having sold more than 300,000 copies in its first 9 days available, a new App Store launch record. Developers expanded the game to 13 other platforms, creating so much success for pop-cap games that be bought by EA for 650 million. Yep, EA. The company was such an extreme reputation for greed, there's an entire Wikipedia page dedicated to criticism of the company. People have called their use of micro transactions a plague, which sadly began to infect Plants First Zombies, because on the 15th of August 2013, Plants First Zombies 2 came out, with one key difference compared to the first. Pop-cap found a way to cram this game with as many in-app purchases and micro transactions as humanly possible. To the point where it's too much of a hindrance to me to actually enjoy the game. Plants First Zombies 2 features micro transactions. Unlike in the previous entries to the series, new Plants can be purchased with real money, as well as upgrades and coins. These items can also be bought in bundles to save some money. Certain Plants could only be accessed using cold hard cash, and while coins could be naturally earned in game, you could perhaps have $52 to instantly unlock them. The pirate season world-west levels can also be unlocked without earning all of the required stars. They cost $5.49 to instantly access. More controversial for whatever reason was the game's new art style. People argued that every single character looked to be designed by a totally different person, each of whom had their own way of drawing. There's four videos dedicated to the poorly designed Plants, with the excessive discussion about this floor being a meme within the community. This was because they'd hired a whole new team of designers, and under suspicious circumstances fired George Fenn, who designed PVZ1 all by himself. Well, an article later confirmed, EA fired Plants vs Zombies creator for refusing micro transactions in sequel, explaining that George had lost his job, as he didn't agree with the paid win model. Hit partially confirm this by tweeting, regarding recent rumors, it is true I was laid off by EA Slush PopCap, and also true that I was against making PVZ2 a freemium game. That's all I'll say on the matter for now. Short-oom is paying for a game once, and unlocking cool things by actually, you know, playing that game? You and me both, man. These elements led to videos claiming, Plants vs Zombies 1 is better than Plants vs Zombies 2, but that's not to say that the second game was awful. It featured so many different Plants, it's hard to even count them, and offered 312 levels, compared to just 50 in PVZ1. These PVZ2 levels were each set at varying levels of difficulty, better serving a wider range of players. The second game, therefore, also received amazing feedback, with critics stating the game is just as enjoyable without spending a dime, and that you'll only need a pay if you're exceptionally impatient, or just not very good at these kind of games. The microtransaction model also meant the game was totally free, leading to 25 million downloads in the first two weeks, more than PVZ1 had achieved in four years. In fact, according to Hey, I'm Jay, for every dollar the original was making, PVZ2 made 26,000, then, therefore, make the original free for every player, although this meant people would be paying with their time. It's free now, which naturally means that the game absolutely bombard you with ads. God, I love mobile games! There are ads before and after levels now, and even during where the game tries to distract you as much as possible to watch a video for an extra item. Before every level you have to watch an unskippable ad, then sit there prompted to download what you watched. At the end of every level, you're forced to briefly play a different mobile game, with the hope that you'll download later. Idons can be earned by watching further ads, which are even served to those who initially paid for the game. You could say it's even more annoying than the micro-transaction model, which was earning so much money for PVZ2 that start to build Plants vs Zombies 3. In the meantime, developers took a detour and put out Plants vs Zombies Garden Warfare. This third-person shooter was certainly different, but extremely well-received, achieving consistent reviews of 7 out of 10 or higher. Garden Warfare was surprisingly amazing. I remember spending definitely over 500 hours grinding it as a kid. That therefore released Garden Warfare 2, which was even more successful than the first, confirming the third-person shooter style was perfect for the series. So when that announced what was basically Garden Warfare 3, developers likely expected another successful title. It was called Plants vs Zombies Battle for Neighborville, which featured an epic trailer in 2019, gaining over 15 million views from super excited fans. But with people eventually stating, this whole trailer was fantastic and I love it. Too bad I love the trailer more than the game. The game was a total flop. Plants vs Zombies Battle for Neighborville is one of the worst games you've never heard of. Extensive posts like this called it, a complete and utter disaster in almost every way, and one of, if not the worst multiplayer game, O played in 2019. It referenced problems such as bugs and graphical errors, textures and map designer absolutely horrible, whilst the characters all control awfully and feel very unenergetic since the sound design is absolutely garbage. Then of course there were the microtransactions. These need to be unlocked, and the way you unlock these characters is through a specific challenge called giving EA $30. But the game already costs $30 to buy, and you expect players to spend that twice in order to play the new characters. As mentioned, the game already costs $40, but demanded an extra $30 to unlock every character, which could be unlocked by grinding the game, but would take about three months to earn one costume. Players therefore dismiss the game completely, writing as a player who played the two previous games of this one. I can say that this game is a joke, on the Plants vs Zombies franchise. Bad graphics, boring gameplay, boring characters. Compared to Garden Warfare 1 and 2, this game is very bad. That therefore stopped updating it after only 11 months, leading to comments like it is so sad how fast this game died. If it had a little more time to develop, and didn't have microtransactions, then it would have never disappeared. But apparently the franchise didn't learn their lesson, as during that very same year, Plants vs Zombies 3 was nearing completion, that had 7 full years since PVZ 2, setting high expectations for PVZ 3. However, when the first bit of gameplay was posted to YouTube, people instantly disliked it. PVZ 1 skill. PVZ 2 wallet. PVZ 3 won't download it. Why? For starters, the game was now in portraits, which to be honest was probably more convenient, but at the same time it looked extremely weird. The lawn is literally horizontal. Why? Why is the display vertical? The game had also gone from 2D to 3D, and had another change in art style, prompting memes such as this. It is evolving just backwards. The new P-Shooter model looked absolutely awful, which sadly couldn't be upgraded through microtransactions. With videos like Plants vs Zombies 3 is mechanically broken, gaining over 2 million views, PVZ 3 was taken off the app store, that re-release it one year later, to which people said compared to the alpha this looks great. However, again, it still wasn't good enough. This happened again in 2022, then again in 2024, receiving the same feedback at every single point. The game was simply boring. There is just nothing to do in this game, and besides Brian, the stupid main quest that just sucks. 90-something levels of doing the same thing over and over and over is so boring. I've just spent three hours playing the fourth beta of PVZ 3, and I gotta say, how does AI get away with this? The game is 10,000% dumb down, no more collecting plants, no more input on plant choosing, Sun is now worth one, and plants cost one to five plus, animations feel cap that 10 FPS, gameplay feels unfun. Others complained it just had a scummy feeling. Right out of the gate, it seems to just have that manipulative, mobile game feel about it. You know that feeling. Everything about this game feels off. It's like I'm watching an app store ripoff of PVZ. As a result, it's still in development, five years after its first alpha launch.