It is a bit scary to know that the most valuable private company in the world has your address and has shown up and has questions for you. They were asking for every former employee that we had spoken to and what we said to them, every congressional office that we spoke to, every potential investor that we spoke to. Tyler is just one of many advocates suddenly being targeted. Hi, welcome to another episode of Code Fusion. What you just saw there was basically open AI knocking on the doors of people who had spoken ill of them. Why are they so scared of what people are saying? Well, this is part of the reason why. On Friday the 16th of January, 2026, open AI dropped a bombshell. We are starting to test ads and chat GPT free and go, new $8 a month options here. That's right, open AI is incorporating ads into chat GPT. Now for any other startup, this is normal, even expected at this point. But for open AI, it's an admission that things aren't going so well. In fact, it's their last resort. Those aren't my words, but Sam Altman's words in October of 2024. He stated, I kind of think of ads as like a last resort for us for a business model. I would do it if it meant that was the only way to get everybody on the world, in the world like access to great services. But if we can find something that doesn't do that, I'd prefer that. So after hundreds of billions of dollars in investment, increased competition, stupid side projects like the Sora app losing $15 million per day, having trillions in spending commitments, are we witnessing the beginning of the end for open AI? After taking 40% of all the round on earth and causing a myriad of social environmental and economic problems for everyone, there's a sizable section of people that would love to see this company go down in flames. And if things continue just the way they are, they just may get their wish. This talk of the whole company going bankrupt by 2027. As former Fidelity asset manager George Noble states, quote, I've watched companies employed for decades. This one has all the warning signs. You are watching Cole Fusion TV. Last episode, we saw how AI failed at 96% of freelancer work. But in this episode, we're specifically looking at open AI and the problems they're facing. From anthropics clawed to the open source Chinese models, the consumer AI landscape has rapidly changed. Today, open AI is no longer the clear leader at once was. Look, the way this works is we're going to tell you it's totally hopeless to compete with us on training foundation models you shouldn't try and it's your job to like try anyway. And I believe both of those things. I think it is pretty hopeless, but. They've spent too much money they don't have. The competition is catching up and they're feeling the heat. In a nutshell, it doesn't look good. They've lost $12 billion in a single quarter. Their traffic has been falling for one year straight. Both Salesforce and Apple have ditched them for Gemini. Top leadership is leaving and they need $143 billion to become profitable. At this rate, even in video sounds less enthusiastic about investing in them. I asked you to clear about open AI again. Sure. Yesterday, you said that the Nvidia is not going to invest as much as 100 billion in open AI. That's for the current one. We never said we were going to invest $100 billion in one round. That never was said. How about the overall commitment? Because last September, you and open AI again. There was never a commitment. If they invited us, they invited us to, so let's start over again. They invited us to invest up to $100 billion. Of course, we were very happy and honored that they invited us. But we will invest one step at a time. But thought is not overall commitment still stands. Or it's not the commitment. I told you just now. You keep putting words in my mouth. Sorry if I'm not wrong. I know that. They invited us to invest up to $100 billion. We are honored that they invited us. We will consider each round one at a time. It appears that confidence in open AI is fading. As reported by the Financial Times, their closest partner, Microsoft, has signaled that they're distancing themselves from open AI. Microsoft's AI chief, Mustafa Solomon, said that Microsoft is aiming to be self-sufficient in the AI space. So, the problems for open AI can be split into four main parts. One, the scaling problem. Two, losing market share. Three, the financial black hole. And four, the trust problem. If open AI was the only company on earth with this technology, then maybe there'd be more of a chance to overcome these challenges. But with so much competition, it's going to be tough. Now researching this topic made me realize one thing. Understanding software is crucial, which is why we've partnered with today's sponsor, Boot.Dev, to help you learn how to code. It sounds great in theory, but most people just watch a few tutorials, copy some code, and then give up. But with Boot.Dev, instead of passively watching videos, you learn by building things and solving problems from day one, just like how developers learn on the job. We've been using Boot.Dev a cold fusion, and it feels more like a game than a course. You earn XP, complete quests, and fight bosses, all while learning real back end development skills. Their curriculum takes you through languages like Python, SQL, and Go. And when you're stuck, Boot.Dev's AI tutor, called Boots, helps guide you back on track. They've also just launched the training ground, where you can grind unlimited challenges to lock in your skills before moving forward. Even if you vibe code for your projects, knowing how to code results in much better outcomes, all of Boot.Dev's content is free to read and watch, and a paid membership unlocks the interactive coding, AI assistants, project tracking, and game mechanics. There's also a 30-day no questions ask refund, and a free demo of the interactive experience on every course. So if you've ever wanted to learn how to code, or actually stick with it this time, head to Boot.Dev and use my code called Fusion to get 25% off your first year on the annual plan. Thanks to Boot.Dev for sponsoring this video. Now, back to the story. The first problem for OpenAI is that the capabilities of chat GPT have somewhat stalled. It's at the infancy stages, but you can tell by their recent decisions. Sam Oldman has gone from curing cancer to AI sex bots and a meme slop factory. And more recently, a translator app. All of this isn't a sign of a healthy business. More over AI capabilities that are getting exponentially more powerful. Chat GPT made an absolute splash in its release in December 2022. Chat GPT4 was another leap forward, but GPT5 and Beyond wasn't quite the revolution that was promised by Sam Oldman. It seemed like stagnation had hit and hit hard, but why is this? It's an issue called the scaling problem. The scaling problem in AI put simply as the following. Giving LLM's exponentially more compute doesn't make them proportionally smarter. Once upon a time, this was true, but that seems to be coming to an end. He is a computer scientist, Kyle Newport, to explain it in more detail. It takes a second to get through the story, but it's interesting. In the beginning, we had language models. We had these for a long time, and they were pretty good. You give a bunch of text, and they were pretty grammatically good. They could produce pretty fluent text, but they would veer off, and they couldn't really respond well to specific questions. But that was like the state of the world. We had language models, these were studied for years in academia. Then we start to get this sort of accelerating sequences of advances. The first of these advances comes in 2017. It's a team of researchers at Google, figure out a better way to build these models, they're called Transformer architectures. The details don't matter, but it made it possible for these models to produce like long text, to produce a whole article, to produce a couple thousand words. That was exciting. Then the second breakthrough comes. They do a research study. There's a researcher at OpenAI in Jared Kaplan, and he leads a group of researchers at OpenAI. It includes Dario Amade, who went on to become the CEO of Anthropic, and actually brought Kaplan with him. And they do a pretty simple experiment. They took basically GPT-2 and said, what happens if we make this bigger? It seems like an obvious thing to check, but there is this whole conventional wisdom in machine learning at this time that says, look, you can't make a model too big. If you make it too big, it's just going to memorize the training. Then when you give it new examples, it'll be terrible. They said, let's check what happens if we actually just make these things bigger and forget about that concern. And what they found in that paper was, it gets much better. It defied the conventional wisdom of decades within the field of machine learning, which was like, don't get too big. Your model's going to stop working if it gets too big. It's going to, you know, in it. They're like, oh, it gets better. Not only does it get better, but it gets better pretty fast. And they drew a curve through the data points they had and they extrapolated that curve, and it went up really fast. And so they said, let's try this. And the thing they tried it on was GPT-3. The GPT-3 model hype encouraged OpenAI to just make the model bigger, 15 times bigger. The performance was so high that it validated the scaling laws. This sparked a frenzy in Silicon Valley. Soon, Sam Altman was saying that AI would automate the entire economy. So not only did it jump ahead, it jumped ahead fast. So it really validated this curve. The normies don't know this because they weren't as plug into the AI world. But this sent Silicon Valley going crazy. And like, oh, my God, if we keep making this bigger, GPT-5 or 6, this thing is going to be artificial general intelligence. It will be able to do anything a human can do. We might only be like five years away. All right. So what happens next? Well, they say we need to show this to the public. So chat GPT is GPT-3 tamed for public consumption. So now the public all knows about this. Four months later, GPT-4 comes out. And GPT-4 leaped up the curve exactly as predicted. Exactly. Huge leap forward exactly as predicted by the paper. So now they're like, oh, my God, we're like two iterations away. Like, this is it. All the money in the world needs to come to us because whoever wins this race is going to control the economy. But despite this massive scale, we might be reaching diminishing returns. GPT-5, they start working out right away. So they build it even bigger data center and even bigger model. They're calling this project Orion by the summer of 2024. So last summer, they finished training this thing. Outman is telling his people this thing is going to blow away GPT-4. And his like, this thing scares me. Here's me what this thing is going to do. Right? Like, this is it. We're about to go through the looking glass. They trained this thing. Then it stops working. Lightly better than GPT-4. Like a crap. The leaping up the curve every time we make this much bigger, this than it worked anymore. And so there is like this realization of, oh, just making a model's bigger and training them on more data. It's scaling up, bro. It broke around GPT-4. There's a real risk that there may be inherent limits to current day LLMs. Just adding more data may not be feasible for an exponential increase. Think of it this way. It's like a father saying, my son was born just 10 months ago. And in that time, he's gone from crawling to walking. And recently, he started running. In two years, little Timmy is definitely going to be able to fly. Obviously, that's not how it works. But it's the same concept here. There are certain limitations, mathematical limitations that are not crossable by steering up. I show it clearly, mathematically in my book. So there were many different ideas of how to advance AI. One was, we already actually have all the techniques that we need and we just need to scale them. But that was considered a very extreme opinion. And then on the other extreme, it was, we don't even have the techniques yet. And interestingly, recently, there was a New York Times story that says why we likely won't get to AGI anytime soon by Kade Mats. And he cites this stat that 75% of the longest standing most respected AI researchers actually still think to this day we don't actually have the techniques to get to AGI if we will ever. So it's, we're kind of coming full circle now and it is starting to become unpopular again. This idea that you can just scale your way to so-called intelligence. DBT, I need to wash my car and the car washes 100 meters away. Should I walk or drive? Honestly, 100 meters is barely a stroll. It'll take just a minute or two on foot. Unless you've got heavy gear or there's something unusual going on, walking is probably the simplest and most pleasant choice. Plus, you'll save a little gas and get a tiny bit of fresh air. Alright, so you think I should walk to the car wash instead of driving my car there? That's what I do. It's a short jaunt and it'll probably be less hassled in starting the car just for that. Alright, so how do I wash my car if I walked there? You'll just bring what you need. Maybe a small bag with your payment method and the car wash will have everything else. Once you get there, they'll handle the washing while you wait. You'll walk back with a sparkling car and maybe a little extra pep in your step. So my question is, how will the car get washed if the car is still at my house? I see what you mean now. If the car stays at home, it's not getting any cleater, right? So yes, to actually wash it, you'll need to bring the car along. In that case, driving those 100 meters makes perfect sense. While chat GPT and other LLMs can be extremely brilliant even in high level physics and maths, they don't yet have a true model of the world. Some computer scientists believe that that's an integral part of intelligence. Now I could be wrong, a new fundamental neural network technique could be discovered and that could move things along again. But as it stands right now, it seems that we're reaching a local limit. Now I have to be clear, every AI company faces this problem, but some are faring better than others. And one of those is Google. Now that Google has found their footing after the shock release of chat GPT, new data suggests that chat GPT is losing market share to Gemini. Chat GPT's market share dropped to 65% in January, which is approximately 20% lower than its 86% market share in January 2025. Chat GPT usage also stalled in late 2025. Average daily time spent per user dropped from 27 minutes to 21 minutes. While both have their strengths and weaknesses, Gemini appears to be much better in research, real-time information, and multimodal tasks. While chat GPT is better at writing, coding, and conversation, real-time information and multimodal tasks, AI, uploading a photo or pointing a phone camera at a scene and getting information about it, is arguably more useful for the everyday person, especially on mobile. So Apple pushing OpenAI aside and going for Gemini makes sense. It's amazing to think that back in late 2022, Google was caught with their pants down when chat GPT first came out, but today, they've more than caught up. And after all, it was Google researchers who laid the groundwork for the AI revolution with their 2017 breakthrough of the Transformer architecture. OpenAI simply took Google's work and ran with it. So in theory, Google researchers have the brains to come up with new theories and computer science to push AI forward. Some recent papers include nested learning and Symmetoo, an AI that can reason and play video games generally. OpenAI, on the other hand, has a problem with staff continuously leaving. AI Images is also another loss for OpenAI. The release of Google's Nanobanana Pro in November of 2025 triggered an internal crisis at OpenAI. Sam called a code red and paused all other projects to focus on image generation, but they still ended up falling short. And then, there's the flood of open source Chinese models. Kling AI and Kuen are also gaining ground. Then there's the wild cards like Google's Project Genie, an AI that builds worlds, albeit static, just from a prompt. All of this is to say that OpenAI has threats from all sides. Knowing this is possibly the worst time for OpenAI to be shopping around for billions more in investment. If just in a year's time, the competition will only be stronger. But it is a business. So I'm just wondering, like, eventually is the idea to kind of like license technologies? Will you have customers that you're going to be customizing algorithms for them? Or how is it going to work? You know, the honest answer is we have no idea. We have never made any revenue. We have no current plans to make revenue. We have no idea how we made one day January revenue. We have made a soft promise to investors that once we've built this sort of generally intelligent system, basically we will ask it to figure out a way to generate an investment return for you. The third issue for OpenAI is the company's finances. The publication, the information, saw internal documents from OpenAI. And the numbers don't look good. Setting aside the myriad of lawsuits, including $134 billion from Elon Musk, there's some real financial problems. After hundreds of billions in investment, 2026 will see a $14 billion loss. That's roughly three times worse than early 2025 estimates. OpenAI expects their first profit of $14 billion in 2029. But that's after losing $44 billion first. By some estimates, they'll be out of money by 2027. OpenAI is committed to spending over $1 trillion in AI data center infrastructure over eight years. And that's despite only bringing in $13 billion a year in reoccurring revenue. That's 1% of what they're promising to spend. OpenAI has also agreed to pay Oracle $60 billion per year starting in 2027. And in all of this, somehow, OpenAI predicts that they'll be at $100 billion revenue by 2029. That's close to what Nvidia makes. So it's possible, but unlikely. Other investors think so too. Blue Hour Capital recently pulled out of a $10 billion deal to fund an Oracle-slash OpenAI data center in Michigan. It could be a sign that investors are worried about open AI's ability to pay them back. Google, on the other hand, doesn't really have to worry about cash flow. The company made $86 billion in nine months, and they can basically pour as much money as they want into AI. OpenAI, on the other hand, has to scream at the top of their lungs to attract more venture capital. There's yet more company behavior that indicates financial trouble. There's the floundering to spend $6.4 billion acquiring Johnny Ives' design firm, and that's to build an AI hardware device. But according to reports, the development is going poorly, and it could end up likely he mains AI pin. The AI erotic version of chat GPT is self-explanatory, and the Sora Apps user base is collapsed. Despite not having much to show versus the competition, Sam needs to talk a big game to get the investment rolling in. Curing cancer, replacing your GP, and discovering new science is a massive promise. But can we trust him? The final issue for OpenAI lies with Sam himself. His track record, frankly, is poor. It's almost like Altman's entire career was a series of promises that didn't pan out, all starting from his first company, Loot, that he founded in 2005. It was kind of like a strange GPS-based social network. Sam Altman claimed a massive user base of $50,000, but they didn't exist. In reality, they had only 500 users, but he sold off the company for millions anyway. The next example happened in 2014 with Reddit. He scraped the whole website to feed into OpenAI's products, and then he promised to give 10% of the value back to the community. But this never happened. Next, OpenAI co-founder Ilya Satskovar, who has since left OpenAI, has accused Sam of a consistent pattern of lying. According to insiders, Sam Altman lied to OpenAI board members before being fired in 2023. So with this kind of track record, is he the guy who's going to deliver trillions in value? Or is most of this just talk pumping up new investment? I'll leave that up to you. So a little personal story. Back in 2022, I believe, I was in Melbourne, and I watched Sam Altman give a talk. After the talk, he was swarmed by crowds of people wanting to take a photo with him. But today, the sentiment couldn't be more different. And as partly to do with this, in 2015, OpenAI started as a nonprofit. It was meant to benefit humanity. Now the only thing the company cares about is valuation, and saying whatever they need to to attract new investment by any means necessary. So to summarize everything, OpenAI went from a nonprofit that had no plans to make revenue to a for-profit company that commits to spending $1 trillion on data centers, $1 trillion for diminishing returns, due to the fundamental scaling problem with LLMs, and a little while losing billions of dollars and losing out to growing competition in a sector that may just become a commodity in the end. Just in my opinion, it's not really a great financial bet as it stands. But after all that we've talked about, what do you think? Do you think OpenAI will survive? Or will the competition eat them alive? Anyway, that's about it from me. My name is DeGogo, and you've been watching Cold Fusion, and I'll catch you again soon for the next episode. Cheers, guys. Have a good one. . . . . It's me thinking.