Well, we've been making our burger smaller and charging more. We've been selling less paper towels per roll and still making huge profits. So we've been putting less cereal in each cereal box and sales are way up. I've been putting like four muffins into a tiny little bag for decades now. I'm up. There's a still buy-em. Hi. Welcome to another episode of Cold Fusion. Imagine you're a 25-year-old guy and you head out to buy a pack of potato chips for the first time in a while. Sure, it's a bit more expensive than you remember, but that's okay. The real shot comes when you open the bag. Three quarters of the container is just air. You feel it in your bones. The long underpaid hours. The credit card debt. All of it is represented in this bag of 10 thin potato slices, covered in vegetable oil and salt. You've legally been scammed and all you see is red. Someone is to blame for this. Is it the corporations? Is it the central banks for their money printing? Someone has to pay because as far as you're concerned, you've been paying too much for too little. Today, we're going to answer these questions. Are shrinking goods and high prices just a sign that companies are trying to survive? Or is there something else lurking at the bottom of the bag? You are watching Cold Fusion TV. Let's start with the main problem in question. Shrinkflash. Put simply, the traditional definition of shrinkflash is the practice of keeping prices the same while lowering the quantity of goods. It doesn't just apply to food. For example, NPR noted that in 2022, a small box of Kleenex tissues reduced from 65 tissues down to 60. It's a barely noticeable difference, but as a company, if you're selling hundreds of millions of units, the savings add up. Take toilet paper as another example. For one company, Charmin, the number of sheets per roll have dropped by over 65.5%, and the size per sheet has dropped by 20% since the 1960s. So you might ask yourself, how long has this been going on? Is this new? Or is it something that we just didn't notice? Although people today are more vocal about shrinkflation, it's noticeably been happening on and off for 75 years. Supply chain issues, the cost of raw materials, wage increases, etc. Shrinkflation is a way to keep profits up when grocery stores already operate on thin margins. Sure, this we understand, but lately, it seems like things have spiraled out of control. In the past, less goods for more cost was more subtle, isolated cases in the like. But today, it's aggressive, and it's so prominent that it feels like we're being blatantly ripped off. A little bit. Well, we wouldn't have a reaction to it because we just wouldn't notice, which is why shrinkflation is so effective. Because of a psychological rule called the just-noticable difference. The just-noticable difference discovered by Einstein-Ritch Weber states that something has to change a certain percentage for humans to be able to physically notice it. There has to be a physical percent change between two things for our brains to see a chain. And the just-let's what difference has to be calculated differently for every single sense in every single object. But for small objects like a snack like Doritos, it's about 13% for weight. One bag has to weigh 13% more or less for us to notice it. So that's why shrinkflation is so effective. Online, shrinkflation is being documented in real time, and some of the examples are almost comical. Imagine opening up a bag of gushes. Only to reveal three small gummies in a single pack, it almost feels like an insult to your intelligence. Yet, the response from corporations is complicated. Many express that it's out of their hands. According to interactions with the press, this is a matter of inflation. So, is it? Let's do something interesting here and explore both sides. The first angle is on the side of the businesses, and the other angle will be on the side of the consumers. We all know that government response to COVID was unprecedented. Taking the United States as an example, during the era of the maximum money printing, 30% of all US dollars was created in the 22 months since January of 2020. According to many companies, as long as the Fed continued to print money and drive up inflation, they had no choice. It's all out of their hands. A Frito Lay representative put it this way in March of 2022. Quote, inflation is hitting everyone. We just took a little bit out of the bag, so we can give you the same price and you can keep enjoying your chips. End quote. The pent up demand in 2021 and 2022 was a real thing. The Netlandsher Bank put it this way in a paper titled, The Euro Area Great Inflation Search. The reopening of the economy was characterized by an increase in demand and supply constraints. As a result, output expanded and inflation increased. Private consumption expanded again to reach roughly pre-pandemic levels in Q3 of 2021. In some dimensions, i.e. retail sales, demand went above pre-COVID levels. Real government consumption also expanded notably in phase two, reflecting the various stimuli that governments put in place to support the economy. End quote. That's a somewhat complex way of saying that according to many economists, COVID government lockdown policies were killing the global economy, so money was printed to encourage consumption again and restart the economy. Because of this, demand for goods rose and companies changed volume and cost to adapt to new circumstances. But in the aforementioned 2022 article from NPR regarding Kleenex, not every company mirrored inflation the same way. Many companies like Nestle slim down their products by 10% or more, an excessive amount when compared to inflation. But even in 2025, the trend continues. Products like simply orange juice have dropped from 52 to 46 ounces. Crystal Light Lemonade has dropped from 6 to 4 packets, and bounty paper towel rolls have reduced from 135 sheets to 123 sheets. The rate of the shrinking of these products have also exceeded the rate of inflation. So for the average person, the difference they may not notice, but as it adds up, they start to. And this rapid reduction right here indicates that there is another side to this story. If you've been following my work for a while, you'll know all about the various types of scams and frauds that were covered on this channel. But did you know that a lot of your personal information is already out there, and it just takes one bad actor to wreak havoc on your life using your private data? That's where today's sponsor in Cogni comes in. In Cogni, automatically requests the removal of your private data from databases that store our data secretly, everything from your name and email to your home address and browsing history, and it keeps monitoring to make sure your data stays gone. It's honestly surprising how quickly your personal information can spread online, having something that automatically handles all of those take-down requests in the background gives peace of mind. The dashboard makes it easy to track progress. You can see how many companies have been contacted, how many removals are complete, and which ones are still pending. It's clean, visual, and actually satisfying to watch your footprint shrink. And here's the best part. What would normally take a dozen emails and hours of legal work is done with a few clicks. If you care about your privacy, especially in a world that's more data driven than ever, this is a great place to start. To get 60% off an annual plan, head to incogni.com-cogni.fusion and use code code fusion. That's incogni.com-cogni.fusion. Link in the description. Thanks to incogni for supporting Cogni. Now back to the story. Now this doesn't really have to be said, but just a disclaimer, I know that companies aren't charities. They need profit to survive and grow. That's not what I'm talking about in this episode. This is more about those companies that take advantage of consumers. After the peak of inflation in 2022, prices continued to rise, and it started to become apparent that some companies closer to the end of the supply chain weren't just raising prices to adjust to government decisions. In fact, even smaller businesses were just seeing how high they could push prices before consumers started turning away. While some companies' portions remain stable, there's a fair share of businesses that have seemingly used post-COVID inflation as a cover to increase profits long after it was justifiable, and it's increasingly common with each passing year. Taking the US as an example again, between 2019 and 2023, unit volumes of milk, yogurt, eggs, soft drinks, coffee, cereal, beef, bread, and even baby food were often reduced by 2 to 14%. Yet prices were skyrocketing, well beyond inflation, especially among major chains. According to Forbes in the same period, beef retail prices rose 50%, soft drinks, 60%, yogurt, 47%, candy, 46%, baby food, 45%, and cereal, 33%. Economists like Paul Donovan with UBS Global Wealth Management have pointed out that this can be a dangerous game, pushing the limits and betting on customer's ability to eat the extra unnecessary cost. Generally, companies that are quite close to consumers, so at the end of the supply chain, if you like. These companies have been able to persuade their customers to accept not just the cost increases, but the cost increases and then a little bit more. And that little bit more is of course an increase in profit margin. As a result, consumer watchdog groups and think tanks have been keeping a close eye on corporate greed and how much of a role it plays in growing food prices and shrinking goods. The think tank groundwork collaborative noted that in 2024 in the US, quote, prices for consumers rose by 3.4% over the past year, but input costs for producers increased by just 1%, according to the author's calculations, which were based on data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis National Income and Product Accounts. End quote. And there you have it, as clear as day. At least according to some metrics, if you live in the US, you're being ripped off. Input costs are up 1%, and if everything was completely fair, prices would rise by 1% also, but there's an extra 2.4% of price increase, tacked on for the company's bottom line, and for shareholders smiles. Additionally, quote, corporate profits accounted for 53% of inflation during 2023's second and third quarters. Profits drove just 11% of price growth in the 40 years prior to the pandemic, according to the report. End quote. They argued that yes, until 2022, it was more fair as the price for fuel and other input cost rose, but as those input costs retreated on the global market, the prices didn't. This corporate behavior has been distilled into yes and other term, greed flation, and it's also occurring in Canada, the UK, and Australia. In the UK, United 2024 study of over 17,000 firms said that the average pre-tax profit margins in 2022 were 30% above pre-pandemic levels. This includes everything from energy and banking, to vets, and car dealerships. An interesting point was made in the article, quote, some of the more surprising gains came from medium-sized companies, including veterinary practices and car dealerships. The UK competition watchdog is scrutinising the consolidation of independent vets by private equity-backed corporations, which it says may have contributed to more expensive bills for customers. End quote. In Australia, according to the Australian Institute, large corporate profit increases accounted for more than half of the inflation above the central bank's target from December 29 to June 2023, that was an estimated $100 billion in excess profits. In Canada, total after-tax profits were 55% higher than in 2019. Some manufacturers out there are increasing costs and lowering unit volume, seeing just how far they can get away with, but that tactic may have bitten the hand that feeds them. As demand has now stagnated, things are just too expensive, and as we've seen, it's not all due to inflation. Greed inflation has a non-trivial part to play in some product lines. And then, there's skimp inflation, a practice where manufacturers cut back on the quality of ingredients by finding cheaper substitutes. Just to be clear, these aren't terms I've made up by the way. A classic example of skimpflation is when Coke changed their recipe in the US, switching from raw sugar to high-fruictose corn syrup. This was a reaction to the corn subsidies in the 1980s. It didn't start all at once, first it was 50% corn syrup, then 75%, then they switched entirely over. In just a matter of four years, there was no more raw sugar in Coke. We've all noticed how products seem to feel and taste cheaper over time. Now you know the mechanism and the name. As consumers get punished, some governments have woken up from their slumber and they've begun to push back through policy. They're trying to ensure that this can never happen again. The top five countries where people are noticing inflation are, Great Britain, France, Germany, Canada and the Netherlands. In these countries, more than half of each country's population has become vocal about feeling the pain. But even on average, across 33 countries, 46% of those surveyed said that they've seriously noticed product shrinking while prices remain the same. And this doesn't even account for the select cases where prices have gotten even higher. Countries like Australia are now saying that they intend to fight back against misleading labels and package sizes. They warn companies that they might be subject to public punishment and fines if they intend to mislead customers. Some of Australia's most popular brands, face being fined, named and shamed for shrinking their products, are charging the same price. The federal government is beginning a review of unit pricing and supermarkets to help customers find more value for money. When you talk about losers two squares but keeps the same price, that's not magic, that's tranquillation. It could give shoppers the power to dobbin retailers who rip them off with higher prices for smaller quantities. In 2024, South Korean antitrust regulators did put in place a 10 million one fine if companies failed to display labels that they've shrunk the size of some products for at least three months. A 10 million one fine might sound a lot, but that's just a little over $7,000. A small tax for a massive potential in profit. But efforts like this don't necessarily solve the problem. When it comes to compliance, some corporations can suddenly get very creative. For example, in the 1960s, the US passed a bill that forced companies to properly label the way to their consumer goods. So what did businesses do? They just made sure to place those labels in the most inconvenient places ever, places where most people would never look. More recently, some members of Congress have attempted to push legislation to combat shrinkflation. The Stringflation Prevention Act aimed to make the FTC recognize this as a deceptive practice, but this bill didn't receive a vote before the legislation session expired. Even if it did pass, there are some more issues that keep this problem from being solved. Partly because of how a currency is changing, and partly because of the way companies change your food. Shrinkflation may be frustrating, but if we zoom out all the way, it's the symptom of something much deeper. Although some corporations do take advantage of us, there's no getting around the fact that the very currency we all use on a daily basis is eroding. We used to attach currency to a physical commodity like gold. This theoretically kept governments around the world responsible. They couldn't just print whenever they wanted. But since 1971, as many of you know, this hasn't been the case, and anyone is just three clicks away from seeing the real-time results. The results of making the decision to anchor our currency to nothing but good faith. But let's say regulations were put in place, and they worked. Companies would still resort to skimpflation. We saw it with the coexample from earlier, but it goes further. From materials and clothes and furniture, to mechanical components and cars. So where is the logical end? Well, when it comes to shrinkflation, it's possible that brands will introduce yesterday's average-sized product with new labeling, calling it the new jumbo-sized. With enough time and with that new marketing, they could charge two times as much for the opportunity to buy something that existed decades ago. When it comes to fighting shrinkflation, it all comes down to awareness, and that's what I'm trying to do in this episode. Furthermore, organizations like the Consumer Federation of America, or CFA, have listed downsized products such as ziplock bags, cereal boxes, and more. They give tips like, quote, compare prices and supermarkets weekly flyers. Check the day old rack for discontinued product and bread. Use the store's loyalty card to save on items, stock up on sale items when the price is exceptionally good. Compare the price per serving instead of just the pound per price. Use grocery apps to get rebates on the items you buy anyway. End quote. When it comes to skimpflation, we can only hope that the market speaks. As the quality declines, they'll be forced to backp it all and win back loyalty to survive or prevent downsizing. Consumers start saying, actually, that's not a fair price increase. I'm not going to pay that. Then what you see is companies starting to worry that if they raise their profit margins too far, their brand value is going to be damaged. Inflation did kick up input costs around the world, but when those input costs fell, the prices of goods didn't. Instead, many kept rising. Even today, as seen by the groundwork collaborative study, an extra 2.4% of the costs of core goods is not due to monetary mechanisms. Meanwhile, the packaging shrunk till the point where almost everything we grew up eating scarcely resembles what at once did when our parents were paying. Almost every developed country has experienced a similar cycle. Only time will tell if we can find an alternative solution for buying our favorite things, or if we'll just have to look somewhere else altogether. As people get more and more fed up, this actually provides opportunities for fair price products of better quality to emerge. If the markets vote with their wallets in that direction, there's still a lot of hope. Anyway, that's about it from me. I'd like to hear what you guys think about this whole topic. Have you been noticing products shrinking and their prices going up? Can you think of any solutions to this issue? Let us know in the comments section below. Anyway, that's about it from me. My name is Degogo and you've been watching cold fusion, and I'll catch you again soon for the next episode. Cheers guys! Have a good one! Cold fusion. It's me thinking.