This is the original Sidekick Notepad. The premium paper productivity product that sits between you and your keyboard, capturing your ideas and has helped thousands already get organized while looking good on the go, projecting your professionalism like a good sidekick should. But now it's not just the original. If you're the ultimate planner or a dreamy doodler or somewhere in between, there's a new sidekick waiting to be your sidekick, so let's meet the whole family. First up, Sidekick Calendar. Here to capture your must-do and must not miss events upcoming at a glance. Caught on a call and need to add an unmiscible appointment, don't fiddle with the digital, just jot it down right now where you can't miss it. Or, need to make high-level plans about what really needs to get done this week for real-Z Reels? Well, that's what this Sidekick is for, because Sidekick Calendar is a modern evolution of those sprawling desktop calendars of yesterday, compressing them down to fit to your modern workspace, to focus on only the most essential upcoming week of your important planning. What really has to happen when and with who, and with a bonus timezone calendar in the back, for no matter where the who are. It's perfect for the calendar crowd, but some types are more to-do types, and for them, we've to done the Sidekick Planner. This is the all-action sidekick for doers, fitting in a checklist for your to-do items, a runway to block your time, with still space for notes at the bottom, and at the top a command center for your three most critical tasks. When the pressure's on, there's something powerful about hand-writing those must-do tasks. This is our most structureful Sidekick, and my personal favorite. But some of you don't want like a piece of paper telling you what to do, and I can dig that. So for you, Sidekick Freeform. And almost all blank page for whatever your creative mind can conjure. Want a big, beautiful doodle pad to zen out during a meeting while the type A's grip tight their Sidekick planners, then Freeform is your gem. Freedom, but with options. For that almost blank is the detail of these tiny dots, guide points for grid lines to add as much or as little structure as you like. It's your space to shape into anything from mind-mapping or storyboarding to modular note-taking, or even I guess turning it back into any of the other Sidekicks if you really wanted to. In this whole family of Sidekicks, each post-safirm cover to protect your pages on the go, and when you get there to produce a flourishing flip to start your important meeting by drawing attention to how much you are paying attention. Accented with the click of a Cortex pen perhaps. Your Sidekick is here to help you stand out, and when the meeting is over, the perfectly perforated pages tear off cleanly for quick sharing. The detail we obsessed over to ensure it's satisfying every time. Whether you choose one of the new family or the dot grid design, Sidekick is here to make it easy to capture what's important while making you look good, like a good Sidekick should. So click here now to get your new Sidekick by your side.