Shall we play a game? Perhaps the greatest strategy game yet devised. Rock, paper, scissors. On these three through human history have hung so many critical moments. They're outcome determined by rock defeating scissors, scissors defeating paper, or paper defeating rock. This being the most critical for you will test your skill against me and might have the luckiest day of your life by winning not just on the first round, on the first try, but also then the second, the third. Again and again, win after win, stacking nerve-wracking odds until you achieve a one in a million winning streak. Impossible, you say? Well, I've got the spreadsheets to prove it's all but inevitable, at least for someone. See, you have just joined a group of the nearest million viewers of this video to you in time. All now players prepping, getting ready to rock with rock, prevail with paper, or slay with scissors. Your million cohort stands strong at the start, but after each round only the winners shall remain. Repeat and repeat until there will be but one, one winner in a million, one who will feel like a surreal god of this game. Pretty great, right? Now a note. Of course, we aren't really playing live in a hall. You are watching this video that I wrote in your past to play against you across time. So to you, I am set in stone. I can't know what you throw. I can only reveal the paths onward through this maze of probability and trust in you to continue true. But I warn you now, you get only one shot at this game and I beg you to be honest. For I am trapped here in time. A sphinx suffered to sever successful streaks of wins, having to eject untold hordes of players from this maze for decades to come. But I want nothing more than for the first honest player to win. For some lucky hero to defeat me at every junction to pass to the end, the very end. This isn't a game. This is a quest through the improbable for you, for us all. All right, enough weird foreshadowing. Good luck to everyone in this group of a million. Get your mind in the game. Get your fist in the air. We're about to play the first round. And I'm going to go rock or am I? Rock paper scissors can be such a mind game, you know? Am I going rock? Maybe I am. Maybe I'm not. Either way, I'm totally going rock. Ready? This is for real. Rock paper scissors and shoot.