This is the Sidekick Notepad. Your new desk capture companion here to help you stay organized and look good like a good sidekick should. Slimly sized to sit between you and your keyboard, as tested by thousands of users on all the different desktops where sidekick fits ready to help them all out. How? Well, with its little list and capacious capture canvas, your sidekick remembers for you in the prominent way only paper provides. Get a great idea while in the middle of other work? Well, in that moment with paper you don't need to make the decision of, where where does this go digitally? How does this sort into the infinite space that exists inside your computer with thousands of things that take up no space in the world or in your mind? No, just jot ideas, deadlines, deliverables, or other daily doings as they come up quickly and quietly without changing context or getting digitally distracted. At the end of the day, put these pieces sidekick saved where they need to go and when everything is processed, tear off the sheet and you're all set for the next day with another tri-state checklist to keep you on track and sidekicks dot grid designed to give you the best of both lined and grid paper. I know, you're probably skeptical of those dots I was too when they first came up in the design process having lived only the lined life, but I've been converted to dots as foremost for flexible capture. They let you write like it's lined, no problem even if you've got positively primitive penmanship or easily divide the page in any way you want as if a grid. And dots are great for a doodle, hashtag dot life. Now, with your sidekick notepad helping you to design and doodle capture and check off commitments, you might want to bring it in a bag, which is why it's got this sturdy cover to keep clean and neat while it comes along because sidekick is here to help you in meetings that matter. Now, of course, lots of meetings don't matter. Time wasting life sucks where everyone has laptops open and you know no one is paying attention. I've had many hours of experience hiding in the back of a hall as I made the best of things processing paperwork. In this kind of meeting, sorry, sidekick can't help you. Nothing can. But for meetings that matter where there's real work to get done, clients to impress, sidekicks got your back. Right from the first impression, slip out your sidekick, flip it open with a little flash, and you've got an agenda ready, a spot to take notes, sketch ideas, and at the end degree on next actions, demonstrating in a physical open way that you are paying attention and taking this serious in a way that a screen in between just can't. The power of paying attention with paper in my repeated experience really makes an impression on other people. Ooh, what's that? It's me paying full attention to you. So sidekick has been trialed by so many and even been used in some insanely secure settings where serious thinking needs doing about serious things. The sort of settings I'd say by name, but probably shouldn't. But even the most important of meetings you want to keep as short as possible, and that's where the cover comes in again, to convey subtly yet strongly, okay, we're done now. Let us make our way to the door. While I live most of my life online, I'm a big believer in the power of paper for productivity, which is part of why I co-created the cortex company to craft high quality notebooks, and boy, are these quality? Each one handmade in London, lovely, with traditional techniques by a team with decades of experience that cares about the details. The paper is quality thick, won't curl, and has been intensively tested by pen-efficient autos to make sure sharp lines won't bleed for both fountain pens and roller balls. And if there's one thing we really care about at cortex, it's that the pages tear cleanly. Ah, so satisfying. And that's the sidekick notepad. Your capture companion here to help you remember, design, dream, do whatever you need while looking good. Click here to get yours today.