Hey y'all, Scott here. This is money. This is a video game. How much is a video game worth to you? Uh, not $60, but I'll let you draw stuff on my face for one. This is 80. Oh god, I need to up the ante, don't I? Uh, okay, I'll let you shoot me too. The price of video games has always been a hot debate, primarily because these are ones not needs. That I say, why is my blood type Luigi's Mansion 2HD? Hey, there's lots of ways to entertain yourself at affordable prices, help. Even free. What makes you so special? Well, funnily enough, looking throughout gaming history, we can see these prices aren't anything new. They're a bargain. 70 for NBA hang time on Super Nintendo. 75 for Mortal Kombat trilogy on Nintendo 64. 100 for virtual racing on Sega Genesis. The question here isn't, are these games worth it? The question is, are you worth them? But see, there's gotta be a method to the madness. White video games are priced the way they are, because something like this don't just happen on accident. Aw, butter fingers. I've always seen big boy console games hovering around a $50 to $80 price point. $50 being the standard during the 6th generation, 60 during the 7th and 8th, and 70 and 80 during the 9th. Now, there's been some oddball stipulations with these prices. For example, it seems that the move to HD consoles warranted the jump to $60, because while the Xbox 360 and PS3 price their games are such, the Wii not being in HD stuck to $50 games. But then with the jump to Wii U, now that we're in HD, boom, $60. So this is definitively what a AAA video game in HD costs. Write that down. Righto, that statement will be proven false later. Going from something like PS3 to PS4, game prices stayed the same, even for titles that were cross-generation. The PS3 version of LittleBigPlanet3, $59.99. The PS4 version, same price, though it ran at $10.80p at faster low times. They offered this day one addition with DLC included for no extra cost. It seems that oftentimes, the improvements included in the PS4 versions were considered part for the course. Hey, HD video games may cost $60, but you're playing on more modern and expensive hardware. Yeah, the games both cost the same, but only makes sense for this version to be the better value. However, once we move from PS4 to PS5, this was where we received another price jump, but seemingly only for exclusive PS5 software. Games that had PS4 versions were 60 at most, but here we have Demon's Souls, a PS5 exclusive launch title, at 70. It didn't matter that it was a remake of a PS3 game with barely any content added. The remake is PS5 exclusive, so it's getting PS5 exclusive pricing. So what? HD games are 60, and since the PS5 can more easily do 4K, I guess that warrants 70. But if a PS5 game is also on PS4, it stays at 60. However, Sony switched up their policy. We got a few PS4, PS5 games from them, where the PS4 version is 60, and the PS5 one is 70. You can play the PS4 version on your PS5, so that's an easy way to save 10 bones. But think about what you're missing out on by not spending that extra dough. Oh my god, I'm missing out on getting rid of this fucking thing. That's why if you have the last generation version, you can purchase its PS5 upgrade for a measly 10 bones. Now, what do you get for that? Can you see it? Oh yeah, well, the PS4 version over there looks... Huh? It's actually the PS5 version. I'll just chalk it up to me being insane. I am talking to nobody after all. Yes, there is a difference, but why do I have to pay for this upgrade when numerous PS4 games like God of War from 2018 got a PS5 update free of charge? That added the same exact kind of performance bumps that's costing me $10 dollars with its sequel. And you know, while the enhancements on PS5 are very welcome and make for a more enjoyable experience with smoother gameplay, more stable frame rate, it's not like the PS4 version runs poorly. Hell, especially if you're playing it on the PS5 through backwards compatibility. I feel like we were getting bigger jumps with the previous consoles. Yet we weren't paying extra like we are here. But I guess there's just this golden rule that games from this era of console cannot be $70. Unless you want to f*** around a little bit. So, Activision was able to weasel $70 games onto the PS4 by bundling the $10 upgrade to the PS5 version in as a mandatory inclusion. It doesn't matter if you don't own a PS5, you're getting a PS5 game whether you like it or not. So, it seems like the only method these companies have to price games above that $60 price point on these last-generation consoles is to create bundles. As long as the base package is at most $60, even if that base package isn't available for purchase, it's all good. Just don't even think about pricing a standalone game higher than that on these consoles. But Scott, you squeal, what if you stop giving a s***? Oh, okay, under those circumstances? Sure. Nintendo Switch games priced at $70, even when the max game price for the majority of the console's life was $60, in 2023, I discovered anything is possible. Even bulls**t, the Legend of Zelda Tears of the Kingdom was priced the exact same as all these big PS5 and Xbox Series X games. Even when it was running on hardware, most comparable to... Uh, give me a second. Alright, now keep in mind, it's not that I don't think Tears of the Kingdom itself isn't worth $70, but rather, up until this point, price points of most traditional video games seem to be dictated by the hardware was on, not the game itself. That, it's comparable to that. Like, was Ratchet and Kling ripped apart on PS5 truly worth $70 compared to all these games that were 60, just because they were on a console where that was the standard. Nintendo stated they based the prices of their games on a case-by-case basis. The case here being, can we get away with this? With Tears of the Kingdom, I mean, it made sense. Clarked in, it's 16GB tall, meaning they had to use a mighty expensive 32GB game card to house it all. Then it stopped the Witcher 3 from being a flat 60, even though it used the 32GB card tube. But Tears of the Kingdom is a new game. A massive game! When the reuse is loads of content and assets from Breath of the Wild, a $60 game designed for a console from 2012, whose hardware is most similar to a console from 2005. Damn, they should be paying me to buy this. Alright, let's be fair. Did the enjoyment I got out of this game justify the price tag? I would undoubtedly say yes. In fact, the matter is, this was a special situation. You can argue at all you want, but Tears of the Kingdom could probably be considered the peak of what Nintendo Switch was capable of in terms of a game's scope. This was an impressive title, even by the standards of far more powerful consoles. If any Nintendo Switch game deserved to be $70, Mortal Kombat 1. This game didn't even release on PS4 or Xbox One. They probably considered the Nintendo Switch to be a current generation console, and thus its price point reflected that. And nothing else did. I'm confused, because the publisher Warner Bros released Hogwarts Legacy, like their biggest release ever on PS5 for 70, and Nintendo Switch for 60. Why do this with just Mortal Kombat? What is it because Hogwarts got a PS4 version? So let me get this straight. This is at the same level as that. Even when it obviously isn't, but this. This is where the line is drawn. Where the quality is 2 damn high to continue to suffer warranting a $60 price point. See, I almost respect this more. Like, what is there to argue? It's just f**king stupid. Okay, after all that, let's take everything we've learned and try to answer this. What makes a game 70.son of a bitch they're 80 now? With the release of Mario Kart World on Nintendo Switch 2, $80 became the standard for a cream of the crop gaming. Now I don't think there's any bitter pattern around these video game price points anymore. Some publishers realized, what's genuinely stopping us from charging whatever we want? You want to charge $80 for your game? Do it. Nintendo's reason for why Mario Kart is $80? Because it's worth it. Well, you think they have some math equation to show you explaining themselves? Alright, that makes sense now. Thank God you understand, Gibberish. Well, we just went through here. Showcase is the game industry's everlasting struggle to warrant higher price points until eventually realizing, who cares? Now, am I enraged at the jump to $80? Will I boycott publishers not sticking to an agreed upon maximum price point? Not respectfully. Who the f**king mind to do any of that? I'm awful. I'm not a fan of this at all, but why are we acting like purchasing a video game for children is making some sort of statement? Either you think it's worth it or you don't? It's not deep. Everybody's perception of value is different. Nobody's right or wrong. You don't need to buy that toy on the shelf, but if you refuse, you're not better than anybody who doesn't. Well, you think the guy who's judging anybody who bought Mario Kart World and all those internet comments sections is like a cool guy? Damn, Golden Grins are stickier than they were last week. Well, so I bet if I look at all the crap you buy, it'll all check out. Everything will make perfect financial sense. Now, does that mean you're off the hook if you defend Nintendo's pricing here? Buddy, what is there to defend? Oh, I gotta stick it up for the multi-billion dollar company. They need my help. I will lick this for them. Okay, what I'm saying is, let's not judge the people not buying or buying games at these prices. Let's judge the company's setting them. Because judging each and every person for buying something that you personally wouldn't will be here all damn day. I personally think the only time you should s**t on somebody directly due to whether they're buying this stuff or not is if they're being an ass about it. If they aren't and they just bought this game because they wanted to play it or they refuse because they don't agree with the price, well who the hell are you to tell them how to spend their money? How is any of this productive? They already bought the thing or they've already told you they don't agree with buying the thing. Why the hell do you care if they buy it or not? Focus on yourself, Bubba! Why are you defending Nintendo so much? That splotch on your arm has been there for weeks. Get off the computer and go to the damn doctor! But listen, just because some games get priced like this doesn't mean this works as the standard moving forward. What are you really going to take a risk on an unproven entity when it costs that much? And you can only really charge $80 or above for a game franchise that's a known quantity with high demand. But even then, this price point isn't a sign of quality. It's more so a sign of greed. Like they can do this? So they will do this. For example, Microsoft attempted the move to $80 games with the outer world's two, citing market conditions and a rising development cost, only to go just kidding months later. So you acted like this price tag was 100% necessary and when nobody was buying it, you cited market conditions again and went back to $70 games. Which mind you, many already feel is too high. This just tells me these higher price points aren't as necessary as these companies would like you to believe. But I think what's most annoying is on top of all these price increases, many of these games are more monetized than ever before. More micro transactions, loot boxes, advertisements, doing dear got anything but paying the actual developers of these games more. All being printed on a physical video game that don't include a damn thing on the disk. Modern gaming, yeah. Prices keep going up and oftentimes there's no particular reason for that happening other than the desire to make more money. Which I, we can't blame them for that. Everybody wants to make more money. Also, what I'd be able to do would I love most. And of course the economy. Oh, that son of a bitch, he ruins everything. My dad lost his job, my aunt's house has been foreclosed, my cousin's been psychologically tormented by all these money issues. And Mario Kart World is $80? Jesus, just why can't we live in the era of gaming? We're all of this wasn't an issue when it was about the games, man. Not leaving the sink on a target. Kesh, you sold me this game for $80. This will teach him. And this game's have always been expensive. But they've never been this bad. Right? Well, I don't see what the problem is. I did get more for that absurd price. Plastic garbage. And sh** in my pants. Including crap has always been an excellent excuse to charge more. Oh, what? This isn't worth it? How about now? Let's take a look at the guitar hero and rock band era. When these games were taken over the world, sure the first few releases were more expensive than your average standalone video game. It's 70 bucks on the PlayStation 2. But this was such a unique, innovative thing at the time that you could definitely understand it. Now, fast forward a few years and we have guitar hero world tour with just the guitar controller at 100. Now, let's keep in mind. This guitar is completely wireless. So, I think a higher price point is fair enough. Plus Xbox 360 and PS3 games were normally 60 bucks, including this one as it was available standalone if you already had a compatible guitar controller. However, the idea of a guitar hero game without any controller included being valued at the same price as every other AAA release is a SIRD. Sure, you can play guitar hero with a regular ass gamepad. But is it worth the looks on the street you're gonna get? Oh man, everybody's looking at me like I'm a freak. It's the damn controller. Well, maybe at least the Wii release was 50 standalone, but the guitar bundle was still 100 and on Wii. The guitar was fully powered by your Wii remote. Now listen, I'm not gonna try and act like I know how this stuff works. I am gonna try and act like you know how to bitch about it. Shouldn't this be cheaper to produce if the Wii remote's doing all that heavy lifting here? I mean, the Xbox 360 guitar has to function on its own. This is safe in all the wireless capabilities and power from the controller. On top of the game itself being less expensive on its own. But at this point, you might as well go all in on the full-blown bundle with the microphone and drum set at 190. I mean, in nearly double the price of the guitar kit, I can't and good contents do this. But at the same time, the drums are much bigger, more complicated. Sure, I don't think this is a good deal, but look at how huge this box is. Can't say the price shocks me. However, one year later, here's Band Hero with all the same junk included for 200. I'll see those bastards across the street at Rock Band. They got us covered. The Beatles Rock Band value edition. 160 bucks for everything. They're just using the controllers from Rock Band 1 instead of the special Beatles ones which cost... Money? Well, that's nice of them. I'm offering a more affordable version that's functionally the exact same as the one costing an arm in a leg. Damn, that's what arms and legs are going for these days. But at this point in time, you could nab the full Rock Band 2 bundle for 100 bones. Then pick up Beatles Rock Band separately for 60, so you'd get everything the value edition gives you plus Rock Band 2 for the same price. Well, if you'd want to go even cheaper, the Wii version of Beatles Rock Band was priced the same as any other Wii Why was this game $60 on Wii? I thought standalone Wii games with no extra garbage included were 50 bucks at most. No exceptions. I guess anything goes when you're pumping out a dozen variants of the same goddamn game in one year. These accessory games man act like they can do whatever they want. And that might be true for a bit, especially when they're bringing a fresh, exciting idea to the table. But over time, fatigue sets in. These concepts are no longer as novel as they once were. And when prices rise like this, it becomes harder to justify, especially when numerous companies were passing out deals back then. So many controller bundles, accessories included at no additional cost. It's like you were being rewarded for buying into this crap. My grandfather got a purple heart. I got the Wii Play Wii Remote Bundle for $50. Oh my god, it all the great prices for digital software at the time. Look at this. Six to 10 bones for PlayStation 1 games on the PS3 store. What a steal. Some of the greatest games of all time dense with hundreds of hours of content in some cases. Same goes for all the stone-cold classics on the Wii Shop channel. I mean, NES games were all only five bucks a pop. What a drop. I appreciate that Nintendo was consistent with prices. Might have been a little too consistent. Well, actually, some games were more expensive if they were never released in your country. But there's an import tax on a digital file. I don't know if the money is going to be enough. I don't know if the money is going to be enough. But I don't know if the money is going to be enough. I don't know if the money is going to be enough. I don't know if the money is going to be enough. Digital file. If anything, they should charge less. They don't even translate anything. Okay, well, what about old games over on the Xbox 360's digital store? Well, Microsoft ran a service called Gameroom. Virtual Arcade where you could buy tons of classic games for three bucks a pop. And hence the cheapest yet. Check this out. I paid $3 for Activision's legendary Venetian Blinds. Put a dollar amount on me, please. The landscape of digital storefronts must have been a tricky thing to figure out. I mean, what do you price digital content at? And those early years, smaller digital only titles and classic games were the only things really on offer. And generally, these would be $5 to $15. Or whatever the hell Microsoft points are. And I don't know why this was done on Xbox 360, Ween, and Tendo DSI, using a point system in place of actual currency. Could I wander with this? Ellie's Nintendo's USD to Wii Point conversion made sense. Microsoft points. Is this math even English? But Microsoft deserves some credit because they pushed the boundaries of digital storefronts and began offering full retail Xbox 360 games as downloadable releases. Games on demand. What an incredible idea, especially since you no longer have to manufacture a physical product, ship it off to retailers who then get a cut off the profit. Well, I'd assume the price point here should be the exact goddamn same, if not more expensive than buying these games at GameStop. Well, aren't I not disappointed? This initiated the age-old question. Shouldn't digital games be cheaper? I mean, sure, these days you see a ton of digital sales going on, but when they ain't, games are often just flat out MSRP. And this was even worse back in the day. Sales weren't as common, and the 360 games available on demand were usually older releases that you could pick up for dirt cheap physically, but on the digital store, they were like 30 bucks. I remember PlayStation Vita games were generally quite a bit less expensive digitally, but for the most part, that wasn't anomaly. It seems that most don't want to lessen the value of their game, just because it's digital. I mean, to these companies, there's functionally no difference between these two products, other than this one costs you more to produce. So theoretically, you could raise the price of this, but then the retailers you're selling it at are gonna be pissed you're driving customers away from them. And you can't just tell them to go f**k themselves because where the hell are you gonna buy your game console? And if the standard with digital games was for them to be, say, $10 cheaper, well then that is the actual value of your product right there. And that looks f**king nasty! You ever see when new games are priced lower than usual? The response generally isn't, oh boy, what a deal! It's, wait, what's wrong with it? Sega priced all major Sonic releases for a few years there at $39.99, starting with Sonic Forces. You can not possibly sell genuine dogs f**king for $60, especially when the market value is 40. Sega did this due to the Sonic franchise being a bit down in the dumps at the time, so how else do you get people back in your corner? Well, sell them mediocre products priced accordingly! Well, well, as long as it's not charging me $60, you can do whatever you want to me, Sega. Eventually, with the release of Sonic Frontiers, they swapped things over to $60. To showcase how Sonic games were high quality, AAA experiences were the of the investment. And Sonic Superstars released a year later and was five hours long. Got a bit worse. And I don't think it's fair all the time the Judge Games priced by how long it takes to complete the main story. Like, there's so much else you need to consider here! Uh, uh, the economy? That piece of s**t is making my Sonic game suck! I mean, look back at the 90s when everything was more affordable. You got Sonic and Knuckles on the Sega Genesis for $60. Okay, but hey, Sonic and Knuckles is a special cartridge. One that locks on to Sonic 3, which released earlier that same year for $60. Yeah, these games separately are each one half of the intended Sonic the Hedgehog 3 experience. Sonic 3 on its own had like half the levels that Sonic 2 did because they were forced to put the game out early and finish it later. Yeah, these were still each sold at full price. Well, actually, full price back in the 90s would be what? $70? $80? $90? $100? argument here is, well, these were cartridges. They had to manufacture more with them, often times including dedicated chips to bring you more innovative graphical effects, larger longer experiences. Once they moved over to CDs, those were cheaper to mass produce. So these cartridges had actual excuses to be so expensive. I mean, look at Mickey Manion SNES and Genesis compared to the s**t's Sega CD. Where were you at the boycott? To be fair, on average, games on CDs were less expensive than cartridges, but the difference in price isn't that drastic. We're talking 5 to 10 bucks off or help. Sometimes, there's no price difference. But if cartridges cost as much, I'd take any discount I could get. Keep in mind, games like Fantasy Star 4, Shining Force 2, Final Fantasy 3, these were some of the biggest gaming experiences at the time of their release. You can't really get a meteor package in 1994 if you tried, so higher price points make sense. But do highest price points make sense? And let's not forget about inflation! Well, isn't, I'm not going to act like I understand much economically, but I can do a mean, googling of inflation. Inflation is a funny little bugger because many use it to instantly prove well, actually, as you can see, we're getting bargains these days. They were selling games for $200 in today's cash. Yeah, that's true, but, and 70 bucks is still an awful lot of money for a piece of entertainment these days. Just because this was the value of a dollar back then, doesn't mean it entirely makes sense for games to be that price now. They were figuring junk out in the 90s, but again, they're still a fairly new technology, and eventually, this general price point was considered the standard, what people are willing to pay. Increasing it raises questions. It's the same thing for all these other entertainment mediums. The back to the future trilogy on VHS was $56 bucks back in 93. That's $125 these days. What, you think three movies on Blu-ray is worth that much? My point is, nobody would genuinely look at a $200 game and say, well, the value of a dollar is ever changing, so this is the natural price point of a video game in the current year. None can't claim to fully understand how much was too much back in the 90s, but I can claim to have heard a bunch of 40-year-olds yap about it. It seems that while everybody knew games were piss expensive back then, why is this expensive? It was more accepted than it is today, because everything felt a bit more justified. I mean, even if they were overcharging for fantasy star 4, you can bring up a bunch of reasons why it was so expensive. Mario Galaxy 1 Plus 2 on Switch being $70? There's no reason for that other than Nintendo just valuing those experiences at that price. And as time goes on, we're seeing less and less actual deals because these companies don't have as much to prove anymore. Video games are now the leading form of entertainment. This is where people spend most of their money to have a good time. So an extra controller? That used to be something you had to be convinced to buy via bundles. Now, they're like, we know you're gonna buy this eventually, we don't need to give you nothing. Boom! $90! Just to get greatest hits, plan-am-its, players' choice releases of some of the best games at reduced prices, normally $20 a pop. Now, nobody wants to undervalue their franchises. They don't want to put their games on sale unless they absolutely have to because everybody wants their content to be seen as the best of the best. Cheap is seen as bad. The Horizon Zero Dawn Remastered is getting released at $50? Well, now we gotta take the $20 PS4 version on digital stores and double it to $40 because we need to maintain consistent brand value. And listen, I can't believe I'm mourning the lack of players' choice. I don't like the man I've become and that's what money does to you. But as piss ugly as this is, why is this ugly? You can definitely suck it up when you see the price. 20 bones for some of the best games on their respective platforms. Absolutely incredible, but I guess games at that little price just aren't possible these days. Oh, so these guys are just assholes then. Listen, video games have always been some of the price-your-forms-ventertainment and we can find an endless supply of stupid-ass price points throughout history to point at and go, see, things have always sucked. But I think a big difference between rising prices then and now is how... Enough never feels like enough anymore. Prices games aren't just high. Now we're begging you to pay for the DLC. Micro-transactions. A subscription to play online multiplayer. Subscriptions for the game itself. Subscriptions in the game itself. The Lux edition. The Special Edition console, which is more expensive than the standard one and doesn't include the game. Extra accessories. The previous game in the series, which is still full price. The Collector's Edition, which doesn't include a physical copy of the game. Comes with a case for it though. And oh wait, you're not buying into all this. Oh Jesus Christ, it must be those damn developers of ours! Very rarely do I see something I consider a good deal these days. Some things either at a price point, I deem fair enough. Or it's absolutely overpriced. Now I still buy a lot of stuff I think is overpriced because I have no shame. But while I'm willing to do that sometimes, it becomes harder and harder to justify as the value just isn't there with a lot of these high prices. Back then when a game was up there in price, there was more often than not an excuse for it. Now, they're excuses that they want more money. And that just doesn't bode well for this parasocial relationship I've been working my ass off on. Well, as much as I can complain about how expensive modern gaming has become, let's take one last look at gaming prices throughout the years as everybody mourns differently. Games for the Neo Geo AES were generally $199 of peace. The price is a super Nintendo. Here's the thing, these games were considered arcade perfect. Which is everything you could possibly ask for back then. The arcade was where you saw the latest and greatest in graphics. Then you'd go, well damn, I gotta get this for my home console. I'm never saying words again. Neo, I lied. Geo by comparison gave you the same experience as the arcade. And thus, what's considered a luxury product? This wasn't really seriously competing with Nintendo and Sega because it was for a completely different market. Serious players only. You gotta be a diehard enthusiast to get anything out of these games at this price. Because for most consumers, you could pick up the super Nintendo Regenesis versions of these things at a fraction of the cost that, well downgraded, were more or less pretty faithful ports. Also, the Neo Geo AES itself was priced like this. Hi, it's 1991. I can afford a Neo Geo AES and Neo Geo AES games. My name is Jesus Christ. Hey, even if you didn't have a Neo Geo, you still had opportunities to buy games at the price points of full-blown consoles. Like, virtual racing on the Sega Genesis costing $100. I mean, look at the original arcade game released back in 1992. It would take us a tanig ritual to get this to run on a Genesis. Welcome to hell. Okay, well, virtual racing definitely couldn't run on this hardware without some finagling. Yeah, that's what's done here. Hence, why this cartridge is probably more complex than a microwave. But that complexity came at a steep price for a game you could get on more powerful platforms at such a lower price. Strange how things have sort of swapped around, or a game on lesser hardware is generally not as expensive, but back then, you know how many men had to die to get this on a Genesis cartridge? Well, game development and publishing is a different beast now. Not everything is as difficult or simple as it was back in the 90s, like adding new content and tweaks to an existing package. Nowadays, you can push out a free update or not. But back then, we already see what they did with Sonic 3 and Sonic and Knuckles. But take a look at the whole suite of Street Fighter 2 releases. Nearly $80 for the initial SNES port. A year later, you get Street Fighter 2 Turbo for $74. Oh, holy, a discount. A month later, a special champion edition on Genesis also for $74. Falled by Super Street Fighter 2 that next summer for $70. And that's why! Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo was already out in the arcades by the time these ports released. And for the home version of that, you'd have to pick up a Panasonic 3D-O, which launched at the price of, what the f***? That's a number? Not to be fair. A lot of these crazy prices back then were definitely special cases. New games often hovered around $50 to $60 ever since the NES era. As the years have gone by, with lower cost discs becoming the standard medium for video games, this variable pricing began to fade away, which made it then much harder for gamers to accept it later on. Resident Evil Revelations was originally announced to retail for $49.99 on the Nintendo 3DS, when the standard price of games there was $39.99. Oh, so that's why this mob's been outside for the past 14 years. You read comments on the message boards back that people were livid! I think Capcom completely f***ed up on this one right here. It didn't matter that $50 was still less than most home console games were going for. Then it mattered that they had to use a 4GB cartridge for the game, which raised costs. It didn't matter that this was a full-fledged AAA Resident Evil game, and the most graphically impressive thing on the 3DS. The fact of the matter is, it's $50! And handheld games can't be $50! Well, isn't. In my opinion, this was a situation where the higher price to me felt justified. I'm not saying anybody should have been thrilled to buy it, but considering everything this game was, I personally thought fair enough to this. But, see, Capcom took the complaints to heart and spent months working out a deal to bring the price down $10 before it's launch. And people still b***ged! My God, you look at how people were talking back then, and it's like the same thing these days, but this at least seems reasonable compared to this. But what? It's just life at this point. Are we going to look back at Mario Kart World in 10 years and go, oh, we had it so good. We b*** about prices being high compared to what they were, which we're still b***ed about. But I ain't, when there are loads of people willing to pay $100 to get four days early access to fours of Horizon 5 on PS5, I guess you can just price your games at whatever the f*** early access! The game is four years old! The prices that most video games are at isn't necessarily a representation of their actual value. It's the highest price point they think they can get away with. But even though these companies set the prices, it's up to you at the end of the day to decide if they're worth it or not. You can't control what other people buy or if they think of prices worth it or not. But who the hell cares? Your opinion is worth its weight in gold. That's the only thing that matters here. If you thought Resident Evil Revelations was a sham at $50, I can disagree, but I can't say you're wrong. You decide if this game is worth its price point. Not the company. Health. You can decide if it's free or not, depending on how far you're willing to go.