Hey y'all, Scott here. We're officially one year away from next Christmas, which means only one thing. Merry Christmas! And I'm looking to celebrate the only way I know how! Poorly. That's the same story every year. Oh wow! A video game. Fantastic. But how can I convince onlookers that I really mean business? OOOOOO! Collector's editions. Because how else will I prove I'm a true fan? By playing the game? EEEEEEEE! No, obviously, the only way to truly love video games is for them to become a problem. I really could move. Now I've already discussed Collector's editions in the past, but you know, the damnedest thing happened. I said f*** it. Let's take a look at more Collector's editions throughout history. And see which ones truly weren't worth your time, money, space, and which ones were even truly f***ing worse. It's the Fallout 4 PIP-BOY edition. This was announced alongside the game at Bethesda's E3 2015 press conference, as we thought the PIP-BOY from Fallout was so cool we made it in real life. The reactions to this were so genuine, so electrifying, so naive. I mean, they said it right then and there. This is basically just a shell for your iPhone, but I don't think that registered to anybody. You'll let go of what people are saying here, and it's just a whole bunch of them. Well, I never thought I'd see the day my gaming interests would affect my groin this much. Then when the Collector's edition launched, everybody's going, yeah, big whoop, just taping iPhone to my wrist. And to that, I say, that doesn't give you the same experience as the PIP-BOY. Now it does. For 120 bones, this Collector's edition includes the PIP-BOY Fallout 4. Oh, in the concept of matter. The game comes in this steel book, which feels premium, sure. But there isn't anything all too special about it. Same box, or does the standard release help the back is the same as the front. Well, hey, at least we get a season pass. Add. You know, it would make sense if that was included in the Collector's edition. I say as I'm pointing to and laughed at by Bethesda. And they have the Goldalist, the PIP-BOY instruction manual as a feature. Well, why not include these ridges too? Yes, it's in that classic Fallout style. Yes, there's some in-universe flavor text. But the bulk of this is genuinely just telling you how to fit certain phones in the PIP-BOY. iPhone 5, huh? How about iPhone 15? Yeah, this is the problem with designing anything around smartphones. Eventually, it's just not gonna work anymore. I'm not gonna act like it ain't practical to use a phone for this. Now you got the Fallout PIP-BOY app that connects to Fallout 4, meaning you can use this with the actual game. The app. The PIP-BOY app connects to Fallout 4. Not the PIP-BOY itself, and the app is free for anybody to use. So you're really not missing out on anything here. Well, I'd say you're better off just not using this thing in general. Do you think this looks like a comfortable way to play Fallout 4? Yeah, the knife in my thigh isn't great, but the PIP-BOY isn't helping. Feels plasticky and cheap as hell. I can appreciate the attention to detail. It's a solid looking replica, and the fact you can wear it is neat. But this is a party city-grade prop. And the fact this addition has to list the manual and PIP-BOY stand as featured inclusions shows there's really not much else here. Honestly, the container is the best part. And I'll give the PIP-BOY addition this. That's a hard genre to impress me in. That's meddling. Well, I add as a stack up against the next game, Fallout 76. The Power Armor Edition. Featuring an actual helmet, which, hey, combining this with the PIP-BOY, I am one public episode away from being labeled a Menace. Another steel book. This time, including some DLC, which is a nice upgrade from, uh, hmm, uh, nothing. A glow in the dark poster, 24 little toy figures, and a canvas bag. And my god, I know there must be something about this bag, because I remember seeing an article upon article about this thing years ago. I just never knew why. Oh, it's because in 2018, I actually couldn't read the words this bag in sucks. This is not a canvas bag. It is made of nylon, which was done to cut costs on a product that's already selling for $200. Could have charged $250, honestly. I mean, at 200 bones, this already isn't a sound investment. I don't think anybody was buying this at that price because, my god, the value. So at that point, you might as well charge a bit more if it means you can actually fulfill your promise of... a cheap ass bag. I never described what material the bag would be to begin with. But that's the could have just said they were including an ass dog bag, and we'd be all good. You can't deny that. After so many complaints, they said, okay, we won't give you a canvas bag, but here's $5 and followed 76 cash. I can buy a canvas bag for two! I'll eventually Bethesda concede it and finally committed to sending customers what was initially promised. So, hey, with this collector's edition, you ended up getting two bags and a $5 gift card. Damn, see, getting f***ed over really pays off. Somebody kill me. The life insurance will make me rich. To be honest, these follow-ons aren't the worst collector's editions out there. I just think they're painfully underwhelming for what they promise to be. And when you're selling a collector's edition at 200 bucks a pop, there's a certain level of quality that's expected here. And yet, it is never met. Marvel vs Capcom Infinite! For $200, we get four statues in a box of Infinity Stones. Ooh! For $200, I can also buy all this other crap. So, why buy this collector's edition instead? Well, for starters, we get the game itself in a slip cover and steel book with DLC included. This should be the standard. I mean, you're spending over twice, triple, quadruple the base price, and they can't even throw in $10 to $20, no, even $30 worth of downloadable content? Good on this game, man. Some of the collector's editions that don't include DLC, I feel like they're trying to take advantage of diehard fans with these high prices, rather than actually reward them for their loyalty and give them something worthwhile. This is my worth. It's the Infinity Stones, everybody. Let's put them right next to the image on the back of the box right here. Okay? All right? Okay? All right? Okay? All right. Notice anything? My money's gone. Okay, sure. They may look like plastic Easter eggs. They may not look anything like the promotional image. They may be false advertising, but damn it, they also suck! The statues are the draw of the package, honestly, but while I think they look decent, there's just this cheap, hollow sensation they give off. Honest to God, if you're willing to spend hundreds because you want something like this, you might as well just get something like this. Because they have to make a profit on this package, including the game and all the other trinkets, you're gonna end up with quality more in line with a premium action figure. Or eggs. Take, for example, God of War Ascension on the PS3. See? More in line with eggs. This retailed for 80 bones, so, hey, only $20 more than the base game. What looks better on your shelf? I can't knock on this too much, though. I mean, it was only $20 more, with the figure plus the steelbook and digital content. Like, you got all future DLC with this thing, plus an XP boost for 48 hours in the multiplayer mode. Well, hot damn, that makes this worth it right there. Because I derive all myself worth from God of War Ascension's online multiplayer. This is my worth. The digital soundtracks pretty tart, I get it. CDs are obsolete, but I'd rather have a physical soundtrack I may barely listen to, than digital downloads that hold the same value as something I can look up on YouTube for free. Actually, it doesn't hold that same value, because the download code expired. But I don't know. I'd say this was a good value. That may not be exciting, but what this is, they can always improve upon things in future releases, especially releases nearly a decade later. Here we have the God of War Ragnarok Collector's Edition from 2022, retelling for, oh boy! These fellows in the 200 plus club always have a lot to prove. So, let's see how well it stacks up. We have a steelbook containing... At the very least, they could have included a note. Yeah, this, and actually pretty much all of Sony's big PlayStation 5 Collector's editions, doesn't include a physical game. You get a download code. They still include a steelbook as a joke, and a pretty bad one at that. In hindsight, I also shouldn't have opened up with the joke about wailing. Now, logistically, I understand this is simpler, as this launched on both PS4 and 5. Plus, with PlayStation 5 having the digital only editions out there, you just make one version for everybody, instead of a separate PS4 release, a PS5 release, a PS5 digital only release. But at the same time, I'm like, man, if you're a digital only gamer, why the hell do you want this big ass thing? Oh, I don't want game discs. Those take up space and they're clunky. Oh, but I'll buy this. The steelbook's inclusion implies to me that they're kind of expecting many collectors will buy this, and a normal physical copy of the game. Oh. Well, like 200 big ones without a disc, the rest of the goodies better damn well make up for it. Okay, dice. Oh, man, that's awesome. I actually collect dice. I love the variety now. Two figure carvings, replica of Thor's hammer, and a bunch of extra digital garbage. Hope you bought this for PS5. Here's a theme for your PS4. Thank you for buying a new card. Here's a fucking butter churn too. The best thing about this set is the attention to detail. I mean, it's night and day compared to the exact fucking opposite of that. I do really like how the collectibles included it, look as if they were ripped straight out of the game's world. It's almost like you could display them as if they were in teaks without anybody questioning what the hell that thing is. But I just can't get over this digital code nonsense. At this point, I'd be happy if they didn't even bother including the game. If this is happening, I'd hate to see what fucking piss is. For $200, we get an RC car, an empty steelbook, and this face. There is an argument to be made that this isn't the collector's edition for the game. Rather, it's an RC car toy for collectors themed around the game. So what, this steelbook is just included for shits. Giggles, help. Why not both? Well, the fact the box art is the exact same as the actual game. How it's proudly titled Mass Effect and Dramada Collectors edition with the RC car practical being a footnote. The inclusion of a steelbook, how all these official websites label it as the game's collector's edition. I don't know how else to take this. I'll go with poorly. Well, for 200 big ones, this car better be completely depended on an iPhone app that isn't available anymore. Yes, this thing is actually pretty big and well put together. Even as a video camera on the front. Like, if this included an actual physical controller in the game, damn, it might just crack disappointing. But at this point, you're spending $200 on just an RC car that requires an app to do anything. Like, man, you can get remote control mice for like 10 bucks. Without a functioning app, this is completely useless now. Back in 2017, it was just useless. Same problem I had with the Pit Boy. Depending on this kind of stuff is a death sentence. But it's obviously easier in the short term to just rely on your phone's pre-existing technology rather than build and include your own. But I mean, look at the Modern Warfare 2 prestige edition from back in 2009. Night Vision Goggles. Plus a soap-mectavish bus to display them on. Artbook, steelbook, download code for the original Call of Duty. Plus an actual physical copy of Modern Warfare 2. Oh, that's a nice bonus. All for 150 bones. Like, that's not too bad whatsoever. Especially considering the Night Vision Goggles actually work. Lots of the Call of Duty collectors' additions include something cool like this. That drone with Black Ops 2, a mini fridge with Black Ops 3, Black Ops 1 included an RC car with video camera and a remote control for $150. Ain't that precious! But normally, they would offer a slim-down, cheaper special edition for those who give a f***, but like, not like that. Here we have the Call of Duty Ghost's Heartened Edition, featuring a steelbook, all the DLC, plus some other digital trinkets, and a bracelet. Finally, something to cover my oddly-call-of-duty-goes bracelet-shaped birthmark. All for $120. I mean, sure. The season pass alone is $50. So I mean, it's worth it, but is this really something I can put on my shelf and go? That's my pride and joy. Because there's only so many things I can say that about. Such a big-ass box, too, for such few inclusions. This could have easily been a third the size, but not a- The bracelet's box needs to be as large as can be. What do I mean why I stopped there? Could have put it in something bigger because, oh, it's so special. Wow! Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon in the Blade of Light 30th anniversary edition? If they went all out for this, I can't imagine what they're going to do for the 47th. So this was the first time the original Fire Emblem was officially released outside of Japan and to celebrate. Nintendo went all out. Acting as if this actually released for the NES in North America back in 1990. Full blown box, manual, and map. A real-ass fake-ass game cartridge in Nintendo PowerPoster. A massive hardcover art book and to top it all off. This release is so incredible. This is such a cool moment for the franchise. You can warrant doing all this, but not printing the damn game on a cartridge. But then the Fire Emblem Fate Special Edition on 3DS had the exact opposite problem. Damn thing put too much on the cartridge. You get both versions of the game that were sold separately. Plus the downloadable only version all on one card. This thing was crazy limited, yet held so much value. Oh, the game itself is this collectible. How collectible are the collectibles? A sock. Can carry your 3DS in this. Well, anything that's roughly a fist and width, I'll choose pistachios. And an art book, which I mean, may not be all too original, but I appreciate it. I feel like this is one of the safest bets you could include in a collector's edition. Ah damn what, and the Dead Island bust isn't. But even with a decent one every now and then, collector's editions are an everlasting epidemic. Somehow, I feel things get more and more expensive every year, with less stuff included, while quality barely increases. These aren't for the collector anymore. They're for the sucker. Because at this point, half of the garbage these things contain are just a bunch of digital nonsense toys that are relying on smartphones that won't work over time. Low quality figurines. We're just random things you're never going to do anything with. They're just meant to fill up the list of inclusions on the back of the box. But hey, that's more reason for me to continue taking a look at these things every now and then. Because if I don't, who else is going to tell you the Fallout 76 Power Armor edition isn't worth it? Oh yeah, everybody.