The following Scott the Waz episode was created as a challenge to combine doing something cool for our local community, with crafting a traditional scripted Christmas special. The idea was to donate 8 Nintendo Switch 2 consoles to 4 families of 2 kids each in our area in real life, but creating a completely in-character Scott the Waz episode about it. We reached out to a local organization that works with children to see if any kids wanted a Nintendo Switch 2 and also wanted to play a role in a stupid ass YouTube video. This is basically every child wants to be a YouTuber, so we thought this would be a cool thing to do all around. Thus, the kids you'll see in this episode are real kids who we were genuinely giving the systems to in that exact moment. I hope you enjoy and happy holidays. What the hell? It wasn't a horrible atrocity? It was a good atrocity, dammit. Well, I think it's a hard sell as that with all those bees involved. Yeah, if the pigeons weren't there, I think you'd have a better shot at winning this. You suck. Should I quit to the judge? Hey, Zyron or not mine. You're on or a big fan. That last case of yours? The really f**ked up one. Oh, loved it. Say, is there anything I can do for you to love me back? You could please guilt you so we can get this over with. Okay. F**k. Has your disguise been swatting the city? Everybody must evacuate. But first, after a certain special court case yesterday, we now have a finalized list of scumbags throughout human history. Hitler and Scott. Getting sentenced to besmirchment is the worst. Everybody hates me now. I can't live like this. The douchebag tax alone is killing me and for what? Well, I don't think you're using those spoons to help your case. A gentleman would have used forks. You suck. Listen, I know it's going to be hard to earn back the people's trust. But it's something he got to do if you ever wanted to see them again. What you need is to go on a PR Blitz campaign. Do as much volunteer work as possible. Sink the death. Dance with the blind. Yeah, yeah. Anything to get people believing I'm good again. They'll all see that Scott Wasney had gizzin' a good guy. Buddy, sure, seems like one. It's a beautiful day to make a difference. It's the only way to what tone for your sins is lost. Make the world a better place for no reason but to save your face. No reason but to save your face. It's a beautiful day to get your ass kicked. Cause I think the whole world is over the stick. Why who's it for? For not falling for it. Who's it for? For not falling for it. Not me. People hate you more now. It's not my fault. I tried to be good and charitable. The blood bank didn't accept my blood. Politics. I say give up. Embrace the hatred. You don't have to be good. You're better than that. No, Scott. I believe you're better than better than that. And besides, there's the one last thing anybody could possibly try. No! Why? So, you guys are kids, huh? Scott, those are her baby. Those are children. Okay, just tell me what I need to do for you guys to like me. Did you know in some cultures, Thurna Tomato actually means they hate you. Okay, hey Christmas is coming soon. Just tell me what you want. Seriously, I promise I'll get you anything you want. Baby again! We shall hide! This is going to be tight. Question. This Christmas, if you had to buy video game consoles for a bunch of children to save your reputation but have no money to do so, what do you do? Oh, I've heard this once. Tsk. You cold brother. Well, the obvious solution is to go for the cheap stuff. I mean, video game consoles aren't anything new, but even when they're used, well, it's new to me. I think I got to stay clear from the second hand stuff. I mean, a goal is to win these kids over, not give them anthrax. So, all right, brand new game console that won't break the bank. Oh, easy! Here we have the MyArcade GameStation Wireless HD for only 50 Bones. It has 15 officially licensed titles from Data East and Jaliko. The kids love that. Those words have some of the same letters as Fortnite. In addition, there's 250 more video games included. I don't know what they could be, but isn't that the fun of this package? The fact that you have hundreds of video games and none of them are worth mentioning on the box. But, racket attack is, what does that tell me? Nothing I didn't already know. All right, uh, my unit here, I get absolutely no sound from. Trying different cables, I'm plugging, plugging back in. Nothing. And there's no system settings to change here either, so there's nothing I can do about how it sounds. Or looks. Yeah, this looks... Ugh, what's the word I'm looking for? Found it. But the kids won't notice any of that. Kids are kids. They're too young to notice the fine details, like how the controller just stops working after seven minutes. Damn it. And I was just about to get to the 84th of a fucking stupid game. While this may, in fact, be a video game console I can give to these children, I'm a bit worried it might be a tad too complete dog sh** to really win them over. So what other options do we have here? Well, there's all this portable crap by up son of a b****. My arcade is the leading supplier of game systems under the $100 price point. They're also the leading supplier of complete dog sh**. Yeah, it's crazy. They beat out dogs. These handhelds are around 45 bucks a pop and have legitimate gaming icons at the forefront here, which is a nice change of pace. What we're putting hoops on the front of the box? And Netflix shows stunk. The Mega Man Pocket Player Pro includes the first six games on NES all on one dedicated handheld. This actually seems to be a really cool product at a wonderful price. I'm sure the kids would love Mega Man. Listen, I know kids, they love failure. All right, maybe some of these cheaper devices aren't the best path forward, especially if they're from my arcade. Like, this gold gamer classic is only $30. Yeah, but none of the 300 retro games included are actual titles. They're all the kind of generic, no-name bonus games, including with the game station wireless HD. But, Scott, how can any device with Mike Pig be a bad thing? Well, damn it, my arcade found away. Much like they found away to... Can I show this? Many of these my arcade retro devices feel more like time-wasting novelties at best, rather than something you'd actually want to dedicate your time to enjoying. Which is what I think these kids want a game system for. I... Fortnite. As much as I would love to purchase presents based on the loophole of, why, you said you wanted a game system. I don't think that's how heroes are born. But if I gave them each an Nintendo Switch Lite, that plays all the modern junk kids these days care about. Plus, this is a budget device. It's perfect. Okay, well, how likely is it I could convince them they don't want a video game console, but instead, fresh fruit and batteries. Alright, seriously, though, is the Switch Lite truly the best option here? Because, sure, it costs less than most other consoles, but does that mean it's really the best investment at this point in time? I mean, what if they want to play games on the TV? Can't do that here. What if they don't want a salmon-colored system? They're f**ked. And buying a console when its successor is already out, I just feel like while this is more expensive, it has a far longer lifespan in front of it. On top of already being compatible with the vast library of the Switch One. Okay, what are my other options? Oh, a cheap tablet. That's it! 60 bucks for a device that can do anything! Anything! Anything! Anyways, there's the next playground at about $200, kit-based console that operates like the Connect, with a forced-paid subscription to get more games. Oh my god. Do I have to buy that for them too? Maybe a handheld PC, like, oh, okay, the Logitech G Cloud is $300, and it's a cloud gaming only device. Every kid's dream! For $100 more, you can get a Steam Deck. Why the hell wouldn't you just do that? Alright, so what? Are we settling on a Steam Deck for everybody then? No! Isn't it against the law to give somebody younger than 40-illinux-based device? Oh, listen, I wouldn't call it the Steam Deck difficulty use, but it is most definitely more of an enthusiast's handheld. Something for somebody with a large pre-existing Steam library, rather than somebody just looking to play some video games. Which, at this point, we're already at a normal console price point, and these, I'd say, are a bit more appropriate for children. The Xbox Series S or PlayStation 5 Digital Edition? Well, here's the thing. I don't know if these kids wanted a home console or a handheld, so to play it safe, I think I need to buy a hybrid system. Which brings us to the Nintendo Switch 2 at $450. This was a mistake. But the $500 bundle includes Mario Kart World for $30 less than it would be separately, so I think that's the most valuable option here. This was a mistake! Oh, listen, I'm not saying this is the best console you could possibly buy, but it's definitely the safest, most valuable one when it comes to buying for somebody you don't know. I think I'm just playing with fire with all those other options. Very Christmas. The Switch 2 is probably the most practical console for your average everyday consumer. You get everything the original Switch was, plus third party games with far fewer compromises. You could probably get by with this as your only console, considering it has mad and street fighter assassins, Creed, Resident Evil, Cyberpunk, Persona, Final Fantasy, Hitman, Yakuza, all looking and playing. Good enough. Which is more than you can say about Switch 1. Here's a comparison between Madden on Switch 1 and 2. Well damn, I could have left my eye patch on for that. You got everything you could ask for here. Fortnite on Switch 2 runs well. Day R I say, better than Switch 1. Really? If the kids like just dancing, you knew there were actual controllers to play here, rather than being forced to connect a smartphone like with the other consoles. Minecraft is huge, Five Nights at Freddy's, which I think kids are more into YouTube videos about it than actually playing the games. But hey, it's all here. In addition to all the stupid Nintendo games, you could possibly ask for. Okay, maybe not all of them. And I think it's important to spring for the bundle here with Mario Kart World Included. I mean, say what you will about the game, but for a young kid, this damn game would be magical looking back at years down the line. I think the free run mode is perfect for them. I recall loving this kind of junk back then. Amously exploring the world, coming up with my own stories as to what's going on. Uh, on top of this, just being flat out Mario Kart. I mean, yeah, we gotta get them the bundle. They'll love this. Oh, and all the other games I could get them, like Kirby and the Forgotten Land, Mario Party Jamboree. Okay, I mean, to be fair, I could save money just getting the Switch 1 version, because this version adds nothing of value, other than it's funnier to throw this one. Can't go wrong with other Switch 1 games, like Mario Odyssey, Mario Wonders, Splatoon 3 Clubhouse games. It's a little bit of a metric, it might be a little too intense for them. I don't know. Pigment 4 may have a bit too much, it throws at them also. Arms. No, but like, I don't know, it's fun to not just recommend the best of the best. Rather, trying to find games that will gel best with a particular group of people. Oh, and this particular group of people may have brothers and sisters, and they could use systems for themselves. So let's get a 40, Nintendo Switch 2 consoles, just to be safe, adding up to this grand total, and with that being said, what the hell am I thinking? This is ridiculous, I can't get carried away just because I'm excited here. Hey, champ, do you do it okay? You sound like one of those emotions I've been hearing all about. I'm set. Yeah, I can't spend all my money on a bunch of kids, I don't know just to look good. The world already hates me, I can't be broke on top of that. I just need a miracle to happen at this point. You want a miracle? Well, listen to this. Just moments ago, I stumbled and dropped my phone into the lap of Rex Mos, who without hesitation picked it up. I could tell he was frazzled by what just happened. That I was. The phone landed screened up into my lap, unintentionally triggering an app to open. That app just happened to be a popular form of social media with live streaming functionality. As I was holding up the phone to confirm this fact, I was then met with some unexpected incidental contact by one Jeb Jeb. Yes. I got caught up in the excitement of the whole endeavor. Phone falling, Rex picking it up. I had a sudden burst of energy that manifested itself into what many would call a nudge. Without hesitation, my elbow struck Rex in a way that most definitely affected him physically. That it did. As I have an odd quirk, if you will, wherever I am nudged, my thumb instantly falls upon anything that happens to represent a go live right now button, which, as luck would have it, happens to exist on this particular social media app. And thus, this entire conversation starting with your selfish monologue has been accidentally livesnamed to all of my followers. Disregarding the problems that arise in this situation, you said you were looking for a miracle, and the domino effects that transpired from a silly stumble. Now that's a miracle. What? This just in? Nah, this Jerry. Skumbag Watch 2025 continues as we have some updates on some of the worst people throughout history. Dead? Dead. Dead? They now Scott. Yeah, I can't spend all my money on a bunch of kids I don't know just to look good. The world already hates me. I can't be broke on top of that. Wow. Well, let's hand it over to lies a lot. Our certified expert on all things asked. Seeing Scott get crucified for all of his wrongdoings just makes me feel so much better about myself and how I've never stooped to his low and gotten caught for all of the reins it's **** had done. I second that. See, here's the picture of me shaking hands with the Prince of Darkness himself. It don't matter, you're too busy hating Scott to care. You got checked the news? The damn media. Sorry pal. Is there anybody who's got an crucified worse than me? Jesus Christ. I can't think of anybody. It's not fair. Why would all of these **** believe that I'm a nice guy? I've turned everything at this point. Well, maybe you're not trying for the right reasons. You don't want to do good. You just want to look good. I wanted to help because I believe in you. But you just let all the negativity consume you. I'm done here. I refuse to be part of an environment focused on cheek tricks and pedaling bulls*** to maintain relevancy. Thank you guys. I'm going to work at GameStop. Oh, thank God. I thought he was going to say he was going to the grocery store and I'm all like, I just went. I don't need more eggs. Maybe it's all true, Ben. Maybe I am an awful person. Listen, you're not perfect. But the fact you were thinking everything out and you were going to get those kids something they generally enjoyed it means you really wanted to do some good up. That's true. You get to stop at the first couple of options like whatever the hell and whatever the ****. Yeah, you know, it was really exciting thinking about what they'd like the most. But and what's the point of nobody's going to think of my good guy? You know what? Fellas? We're going to GameStop. Oh, thank God. I thought he was going to say we needed to go to the grocery store and I'm like, I just want to, I don't need more eggs. I All right, here's our shopping list. Are you sure they want the do-game consoles? I mean, I can go to the chicken farm stop next door. No, I promise game consoles. I don't care if they're starving to death. They're not getting chicken farm. They're getting something to play snipper clips on, damn it. Well, let's get to it. We got to hurry. It's December 22nd. Then you know what's coming soon. December 23rd. Well, well, well, if it isn't douchebag and two people next to a douchebag. Hey, my name isn't two people. 140 Nintendo Switch 2s, please. Sorry, we have a 39-cost limit per customer. Oh, okay. So, um, he'll take 39 and I'll take 39. So what are these for? It's a grand gesture to look good. You know everything's your full of it, right? Yeah. That'll be $19,500. What about now? $19,480. You sort of a bitch. You took my private money. Rex, do I steer energy? You need that for driving. Save him. Somebody else. I'm not selling you those damn consoles. They're for the kids I promise. I want to give them a good frismus. Yeah, right. Sell me the console. No. I'll pay double. Never. Yes, sorry. It was really hard to believe you with him jamming his stomach, my ass. It was the only way I could defend myself. What do you mean the only way? Hi, everybody. Merry Christmas. Thanks, Bobby. We really want this. Are you kidding me? All rise. See, I told you it was stupid to sit down. We're just going to stand back up again. You've been standing for nine hours. We are here to finalize the decision on if Scott Wisenack must legally register as a scumbag. What do you all think? You're on. Marion Webster defines a scumbag as a bag of scumbag. Do you see that in front of you? I don't think so. I just see a s**tty person. Objection, your honor. As a s**tty person, I find that insulting. Well, you're a disgrace to the s**tty person, Nate. You know, I think if you brought up giving those consoles to the kids, they'd probably lower your subs from scumbags to just plain human scumb. You know, I'm okay. I realized you don't become a good person trying to look like a good person. You become one when you just want to do good. I don't care what people think of me. If they hate me so be it. I'm happy with what I did and that's all that matters. That's a beautiful thing to say for somebody who used a thousand popsicle sticks to it. The point is, I'm happy all as well and the only thing that truly got hurt was my reputation. And back. Now, let's take some of the heat off of me. Now, I may be in extraordinary amounts of debt buying all those switched-dos. The feeling I got doing that for those kids was way better than trying to grip everybody into thinking I'm this awesome person. Or how financial security could ever make me feel. Either way, I was already in debt. So the more debt I occur, well, they haven't released debt too yet, so it can't get any worse. I think I'm good. Well, this Christmas seems that everything worked out unless I'm forgetting something. Oh, shit. Hey, old Scott here. Hey, old Scott here. Yeah, if you can pick whichever one you want, they're all the same, but you want that one? All right, we'll keep that in mind. That'll be yours. And then the kids here. Yep. That's just going to be- I'm going to say a lot of Nintendo games here. There's a lot of kids here, Rowan. So we want to like cut to like us like talking to you guys and we're going to throw them ourself separately. But I want you guys to look and done with me as possible. You're just- You're just sitting here and just like- Got a landed? Oh, oh, oh. Harmful. Perfect. That was pretty good. Very good. Very good. Three, two, one. Three, two, one. Even better. Even better. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I'm going in. Yeah. I'm going in. Is that good? Do we have to do this? Do we have to take them all in? Yeah, yeah. That's all I do. All right, guys. That's everything. You guys did it. All right. Yeah, it's all yours. You guys, yeah, grab it and leave it. Don't forget. Take it. Take it. Take it. It's all right. Yeah. Yeah. Make it.