Hey all, Scott here. I'm a gamer! And if I learned anything from being a gamer, it's that I'll never learn. And if I gained anything from being a gamer, it's a lack of creativity. After my diagnosis today, I decided to stop any non-gaming activities to bask in hot topic. See, now you know I play video games because it's spread to my chest. Playing video games is hard work. That's why the term gamer exists. Because we all looked at doctors and said, we need a word too. So we have graphic t-shirts locked and loaded. If there's no turning back now, I should dye my hair. I'm thinking Xbox Blue. Now that everybody can tell I play Donkey Kong, I'm ready for some new equipment. So I got these headphones, the Cadiers distract you from my misery. Here's a new keyboard. You know, gamers type resignation letters too. This one has all kinds of colors involved. I should dye my hair. You know, the longer I game and the gamer I game, the more I realize, this isn't a game. I need to start taking things seriously. Welcome to How I'll Be Remembered. This is a DX racer chair, the remarkably comfortable gaming experience, which is a huge upgrade for me as I normally game with this knife up my ass. Now, thanks to my better half, I can game as any respecting gamer should. A shill. I love my DX racer. Almost as much as you should love hearing me say that. Just check out this before and after of my ass. And as a gamer, I should really prioritize what comes out of that thing. I don't think it's physically possible to say I play dig dug. I have colon cancer, but as a gamer, anything is possible. This is G Fuel. The G stands for Guess what the G stands for. There's so many different flavors like knuckles and a tote bag. In the end, I went with Pepsi and the pickleball set. Oh, it's like coffee. Oh, you gotta put it in a liquid. I chose milk. And with that, I am officially over the limit as to what's legally considered gamer. One problem. Where are the video games? Well, lucky me, you and the general population, us gamers have what scholars refer to as we can find video games. This is League of Legends, the world's biggest escort. I forgot to finish the P. Esports are a big deal. I mean, it's all I care about, which is why I haven't treated this wound in months. I've gone to every match. I get season tickets every year. You'd be hard pressed to find somebody who has an esports poster as much as I do. Now, I've noticed that professional gamers are never playing single player console games. It's always the free to play PC stuff. Stream to an audience of number, which is why I've created a Twitch.tv account. Now all I need to do is nail gamer lingo. Let's play League of Legends. So... Wow, that was enough for my internet stardom to blossom into cult leadership. Look at all my new fans. They'll defend anything I do. Watch! This has opened up a world of possibilities for me as a gamer, like getting my very own controversies. I didn't know it was a slur. I just thought it was an insult. But I can also start collaborating with other streamers, such as Vinaigrette. Gickofink. Redacted. Big stinky. Stinky. Redacted. And... Squamp. I am horrified and technically disgusted by the actions of Squamp. I will never play Minecraft with him again. Now that I've made apologies and they seem sincere, companies can sleep well at night working with me. Opera GX. The web browser for gamers. Now all I need is a laundromat. I love how this browser is designed specifically for my needs. My needs being spyware. Look at this. I have all these quick tabs on the side to access vital info, like my network speeds and the latest Twitch streams. I can multitask like never before. Which is great because us gamers don't have time to manually switch apps. Just look at my schedule t-shirt. While I read my latest summons, I can tune into the latest Gickofink streams. It- No, no, never mind. Never mind! I noticed many fellow gamers are sponsored by Opera GX. Much like how many are sponsored by G Fuel. That was my only way of saying that was pretty f***ing good. And sure, much like how Opera GX has privacy issues, G Fuel may cause cancer. Never say us gamers don't suffer, especially when we get paid to do so. We don't ask for much, just RGB lighting and... Nope, that's it. I never said gamers couldn't be lonely. I said they couldn't do anything about it. So let that loneliness fuel your gamer instincts! I may have nobody, but I can play a mean Luigi's Mansion 3. And hey, I found a great workaround. If I ever get lonely, I'll just keep myself company by buying myself another computer monitor. This is great! I can game on one screen while... I can game on one screen while... having a couple dozen more! I bought a stream deck. What is a gamer? Obviously one who games you may say, though I think it goes much deeper than that. Are you angered easily by those better and worse than you? Is your personality defined by leaning into one hobby so much that unhealthy habits are considered quirks? Others just have to accept about you. Do you need to have all the options in the world for maximum productivity when you don't even have more than one thing to do at a time? Look, I have this button open up twitch! Damn it! You know, most of these products are marketed towards gamers as if they're a unique subset of human being that needs very specific things to... breathe properly. I don't think I need to prove how game I am with all this, just because I play Kirby Star Allies doesn't mean I need to buy an overpriced uncomfortable chair. I love video games, but I'm not gonna let that define me. I am so much more than that! I also suck at pickleball.