Alright, so here's our trick or treat route. We start here and go to Target and buy candy. And I did find a loophole where I can give you candy for free if you hold me at gunpoint. Well, it's not really free if we have to buy the gun. Yeah, plus the embarrassment of arm-barabary. Guys, just admit it, we're too old to be trick or treating. I'm not 41 anymore. Yeah, plus all these health initiatives are really taking the fun out of trick or treat. Like, they're including apples with my razor blades now. Oh, come on, guys. Where's your holiday spirit? Arbor day. Arbor day! Oh, no! It's up here! Oh, come on, yeah! So what? We're too old for Halloween now? Scott, I don't need Snickers. I need to get my prostate checked. Listen, I think we all have different ideas how Halloween should we spend. Why don't we just figure out how to compromise? I have a better idea! Kill me! Exitle will be quicker than what a lifetime of sugar will do! Am I spending Halloween wrong? Do I not know how to properly act on August 92nd? Well, how could I be? I'm celebrating what makes the holiday at its core! Candy. And if they don't believe that, who cares? It's their loss. They'll just have to experience Halloween without twizzlers, nicorette, blue chew. They don't have to do anyways because I ate them all. But candy appreciation can go far further than farther. Evident by all the merchandise. Golly, you know what I love more than the thought of chewing a twix? Being chewed as one. And video games allow us to see what life is like in some of our favorite candies, shoes! It's the scariest time of year. Halloween is here, and better yet, and excuse. I just want to eat chocolate bars and say the word Dracula. Can't go wrong with a standard Hershey's bar. This is my favorite back in the day. There I am. Memories. I can still get behind them nowadays, but only via leaked footage. This is baseline chocolate. There ain't nothing special about this unless there's peanuts jammed in it. But I was a picky eater back then. I've found peanuts and almonds to be invasive, ruining the purity of my chocolate. The scariest thing on Halloween. Oh, well, they make things more interesting. So just having what mice in your bed? Regular M&Ms versus peanut M&Ms? More like regular M&Ms versus go f*** yourself. Oh god, yeah, I'm already pissed off. But you know what? Maybe I need to get more comfortable around these things in order to accept a peanut up their ass. Well, a better way to do that than try out the huge lineup of M&Ms video games. My lord, this is insane! There's so many more than some of the biggest gaming franchises. What does M&Ms and Zenoblade Chronicles have in common? Nothing, because M&Ms has two more games. I think the mascots have something to do with that. Most candies out there don't have them. M&Ms, on the other hand, not only do we have mascots, they all have their own s**tic. Like the smart ass and the sexy one. So crafting a game out of these is surely easier than sugar daddy's. I was just informed it isn't. So what are you supposed to be? Oh, I'm a liar. Me too. F*** vampires. I'm going as if the wolfman was going as me. I'm trying to go as an adult, but I need more time. Well, for all going to be adults this Halloween, we got laid down a couple of ground rules. Rule number one, no rules. Rule number two, no candy. But what if I'm giving up not Swedish fish for lent? Improvise. Now that's maturity. If you keep this up, we'll be miserable in no time. Oh man, this is so awesome. I'm like a kid in the candy store. Get the f*** out. The first M&Ms game released was the lost formulas on PC in the year 2000. It got a version on PlayStation a year later titled M&Ms Shell Shocked. Yep, PTSD. The M&Ms minis have turned the candy factor into a madhouse and it's up to the M&Ms with feet to save the day. Now, let me ask you a question. What's your biggest problem with Crash Bandicoot? A. Can't eat him. B. Melt's in my hand, not in my mouth. C. He's not an M&M. Whatever your answer is, we're safe here. Yeah, this is a direct clone of the Crash games on PS1 in every way. From the breakable crates to your spin attack move, it's pretty blatant. But that's not necessarily a bad thing. That is. Hey, I gotta give him credit. If you're making an M&Ms game and do anything more than the bare minimum, I mean that's a great pickup line. Oh, we have here is a sloppy-ass Crash Knock-off in nothing more. I've seen worse. But not by much. Well, maybe M&Ms minis' manners will be slightly better than worse. This feels like a handheld adaptation slash variant of Shell Shocked. Now, he even reusing art from it. So resourceful. Can't wait for the next game. And it's more original than Shell Shocked. That doesn't mean it's good. I would have taken an exact copy of Mario Golf with the yellow M&M in the corner. But no, we get. A cheap-ass poorly designed 2D platformer you wouldn't play for any other reason than going through candy games on Halloween. M&Ms games can be like the least offensive thing you can buy a kid. Can be. It's like, you don't know what the kid likes. Get them a candy-themed video game. I don't know. They must like candy, right? And something like this will suffice. The kid will play it. But when I play this game, I just get this lingering feeling. Mom and I aren't very close. These games are just whatever. I mean, they aren't good. But like, they're games based on chocolate. If a color popped up on screen, I consider that to be a miracle. But see, these were laying the foundation for M&Ms games to follow. Over on the Game Boy Advance, we got two more titles. M&Ms Blast and M&Ms Break'em. Now, what does the next generation of handheld gaming mean for my two M's? A Mario Party clone and a risk in some puzzle game from 2003? I might convert. A puzzle game is probably the most sound genre for the M&Ms. Like, look at this. And, oh, no, there's two. You didn't math. And, break'em is a completely competent M&Ms puzzle game. But that's only because it's not an M&Ms puzzle game. Now, inside of the plot, we have to stop Mr. Runch because, according to the M&Ms Wiki, he has evil alignment and what's even scarier is the impending announcement of his appearance. M&Ms Blast is a cobbled together Mario Party ripoff, but damn it, it does the job of a licensed candy game for kids perfectly. This has such heavy shut the f*** up kid energy to it. Just something for them to do in the backseat of an hour-long car ride. Basically, it's a 10 out of 10 at being a four. But you know what? M&Ms on Game Boy Advance is like the M&Ms in my pocket. Oh, God! A very playable slop that I just don't get it. Why do all the M&Ms games feel like they just crammed the characters in at the last second? You can do so much with the concept of I'm the Blue M&M. That's every kid's fantasy. My nickname is every kid. It's just all so generic, but hey, over on the Wii NDS, we have the largest output of M&Ms games today. Which surely must mean, oh my God. M&Ms Adventure, M&Ms Beach Party, and M&Ms Cart Racing. And now I've talked about all these games before while diving into shovelware. I've had time to prepare my statement. What the f***? Let's start with M&Ms Adventure because I have the nicest things to say about it. It's bad. But you know what? It's a surprisingly capable 3D platformer for being such a giant piece of s**t. Even though it says Adventure, I've come to expect just piss-porn minigame collections from these types of Wii games. So the fact that it's an actual video game, I mean, is this reality? Yup. M&Ms Beach Party, this finally answers the question of, what happens when you get sand on my M&Ms? This game. And finally, there's M&Ms Cart Racing. This was not the ideal era for those who just wanted to do everyday things as the blue M&Ms. Go Carts. Skieball. Was there a reason why M&Ms Games turned out the way they did? You got to make this classic beach party in replace all the M&Ms with the Stork and nothing would change. And this was it for M&Ms Games for years until 2021, where we got a remake of M&Ms Adventures for Mobile Devices. I can't wait to see how they changed the game. Oh wow, they changed the music. What were those M's? Yeah, and also M's. Gosh, I've always wondered, Danille. What are they doing on that tune? You got any skittles? They're my entire life. I've always been a chocolate user. That's my go-to style of candy. The sour stuff, you're a masochist. Gummies, you're taking part in a science experiment. Now, fruity junk though, I was always a bit more open to that. I mean, how could you resist the fruity tootsie rolls? Okay, well, there's one way. But starburst, airheads, laughy-tavvy, all great stuff. Though, it always came back to the skittles. I always enjoyed a skittle or two, but what I really loved was Skittles Gumm. That's right, I loved Skittles so much I never wanted to swallow. So I think a video game based on the candy would be perfect for somebody like myself. I just want to skittle around for as long as possible, and gross myself in the world of Misfill M&Ms. Give me Skittles the video game. Oh! I'm sorry, I just get a little freaked out in anything that isn't Skittles the video game. DAH! Oh, it even is this... Darken Sky? Just a generic fantasy adventure- ... Okay, let's look further into this. Well, how are we gonna decorate these pumpkins? Nah, that's too whimsical. We can write our last one on Testaments on them. I'd rather wait to deal with that when I'm ready and dead. Why wait? Dear Will, I leave to you my childhood collection of... Your childhood? Only children have childhoods! Boo! I can explain, it was just a phase! Well, I'm going through a phase two! It's not getting you! The hell out of here! Okay, so this was developed alongside M&Ms, the lost formulas, but was something far different. More so influenced by the Skittles ad campaign at the time, rather than based on it. Yeah, it's some very fantasy-based, taste-thrame-bow commercial, so here's a completely original fantasy game with absolutely no mention of Skittles on the box outside of the copyright notice. But then, you jump into the game, and how do you use magic? Why with Skittles, of course? Is this supposed to make me hungry for Skittles or use them for more than just food? Yep. This is genuinely one of the strangest video games to ever exist, especially when looking at the development. When the company behind Skittles reviewed the project for approval, this action adventure game that had next to nothing to do with Skittles, basically the only feedback they gave was no snakes. You can have things that look like snakes, but no snakes. Do they even get their fan base? I think the Skittles license is so weird here, because it's just there! And they do nothing with it! Skittles are magic orbs in this universe. That's it! Which is even stranger considering the script of this game is very referential, metatong and cheek, and the fact they go through the whole thing just accepting that they get their power from damn Skittles, I just don't understand! Especially when there's no snakes in the game! Darken Sky by itself is a very average action adventure game from the early 2000s. It's not bad, but nothing to write home about. Which means the Skittles save it. Without that, there'd be no reason to even discuss this game anymore, especially without any snakes! I'd like to see and all men joy do that. What's the matter, Rax? I'm a bitch. Oh, well we welcome all here. Bitches, scumbags, mother f**kers, and you check off two of those! Come on, sit down! Skittles! Well, there's a reason it's called Skittles and Bitches. What's it? Skittles were pretty rad, man. I mean, I always felt like a bag of these almost substituted a meal when I was a kid. Ah, yes, the three bags of Skittles a day diet. I don't know if this is cherry or blood, but I did really enjoy this stuff. Which surprised me because chocolate was always my go-to. Maybe what if all those candies I shunned before were actually f**king amazing! Sour-punch kids stunned me with how amazing they were when I first tried them. You got that immediate sour fall by the delectable sweetness. It just made for such an addictive taste! You must be saying, wow, Skott, if you were such a big fan of Sour-punch kids, surely you played World Gone Sour for Xbox Live Arcade. Who? Yes, published by Capcom, it's the Sour-punch kids video game narrated by Creed Breton. And no, we're not playing two truths in a lie. Actually not a horrible platformer. Pretty decent production values for being a downloadable title from 2011 as well. I honestly say this is the best candy-based video game ever created. But how could I say that before trying Smarties Meltdown? I can see the future! This is a European only release, evident by the fact that Smarties in this game are actually edible. Yeah, you ever see the difference between Smarties in Ohio and Smarties in countries they know what Smarties should be like in? What would you rather have? A bigger softer reminem? Or f***ing chalk? Well Smarties Meltdown has this take control of not f***ing chalk in a 3D platformer that I'd say is a lesser version of M&M's adventure. This feels so pathetic man. I mean, even the character we control, it's a faceless circle. You wanna know why they didn't give him a face? Because he'd just be an M&M at that point. It just feels like an attempt to do what M&M's was doing which they weren't even attempting to do anything in the first place. I mean, my God, how are there so many candy-based games but barely any at the same time? Do I count the gummy bears games on Wii? What about Charlie and the Chocolate Factory based on the movie? Or about Candyland? Jelly Belly Ballistic Beans? The Tootsie Roll Family Learning Fun Pack? The Wonka Zoids, candy that came with the LCD video game. The Sweet Tarts 3D game on PC? Has Play on iOS? The Butterfinger Xbox controller? Gumball? I just don't get it. I feel like there should be more, but there should be less at the same time. And there's potential with some of these. How the Sour Patch Kids game ain't have bad? Most of these are just completely waste some of the license and time. Maybe I am spending Halloween wrong. Maybe I do need to grow up. Or maybe... Maybe it doesn't matter. Because honestly, regardless if I'm doing childlike or adult things on Halloween, everything just feels right when you're doing it around your people. Even this. So instead of Bob and Rapples, as adults, we'll Bob for credit card debt. Nothing more childlike than some soggy fruit! You're no adult? I can't believe I thought I could have a authentic adult only experience with you Halloween. Enjoy your credit card debt minor. Woohoo! Yeah! Oh, no, just. Ain't Target Employee House adulthood. Boyle changes. Frost dates. Income fraud. I'm on the lawn. Slowing down in a school zone. Remember in the good old days. Fucking the neighbor's wife. That's adultery. Knowing what adultery is. Wait, that's a adulthood? I just want to spend Halloween correctly. While it turns out you were. There's no right way to spend Halloween correctly. But there was. I think we're doing it right now. Hey y'all, Scott here. And there's no right or wrong way to spend Halloween. As long as you're with your friends. And most of them survived.