Hey y'all! Man, I love video games. Just an experience you can't get anywhere. Is that the DMV? Good things come to those who wait, like a diagnosis. Thank God, now I know! And video games are no different. I mean, have you ever played one? Half the time you're not. Loading screens! Because damn, this is easy to research. Don. It's something we're all used to at this point. It's honestly weird or if a game doesn't have a loading screen. You freak. Loading wasn't very common in the early days of gaming, primarily due to the use of cartridges. See, when we plug this in, the console doesn't really need to load up anything. The game is here and it's entirety, and it connects directly to the console like a puzzle piece. It didn't have a laser reading a spinning disk, scanning data to load into the system. Everything you could possibly need from this video game is right here, and the console can read and display it all almost instantaneously. Definitely helped how simple games were back then. And I was like, oh wow, this game has loading screens, and this game doesn't. And a cartridge games did have to load things. You just never noticed. They rarely stop to dead in your tracks to announce big things in the works. Which made the cartridge games that did just come off as pretentious. Look at me, I'm a big game with lots to load. You're Mickey f***ing mania. A handful of cartridge games did feature visible loading screens, which like, okay. Batman forever on Super Nintendo just tells you to all, hold on. Why? This is on screen for like two seconds. If you didn't put anything here, I wouldn't know what was even loading. What if they didn't put this here? Were they afraid they were gonna lose ya? Well, this is just f***ing ridiculous. Street Fighter Alpha 2 doesn't ever say it's loading, but... I'm not dumb. At least Fatal Fury on Super Nintendo had the guts to it and admit it. But hey, these are unique situations. Obviously, when the system's being pushed to its limit, some funny things are gonna happen. Yeah, okay, f***ing hilarious. But with other formats, loading was far more common place. You gotta with floppy disks, cuz sets. And man, when you saw that loading screen, it was... the exact same as any other loading screen. Not really a ton to geek out to here. I mean, if somebody asks you what your favorite classic loading screen is, why are we having this conversation? And my lord, you really needed something back then. With computer systems like the Commodore 64, loading could take minutes. And what did you get for it? Epilepsy. Thankfully, there were fast loaders to help speed the computer up. Some in particular included many games you could play while the full game was loading, like the Space Invaders want to be. Which is ingenious. Sodam and Genius Namco did the same thing on Ridge Racer for the PlayStation 1. And then filed a pad for many games and loading screens to ensure we would never get anything like this ever again. How did this give them any competitive edge? Damn, I want to play Swampies Revenge, but what am I gonna do when I'm not playing Swampies Revenge? See, with Ridge Racer, I don't have these problems. Ridge Racer finally gets a point. This has brought us to the dawn of the modern loading screen. The PlayStation 1 era, when loading became a standard, it just came to expect from most games. But not every game. Loading was at the forefront of the cartridges versus CDs debate. The PlayStation could house games with large file sizes, full motion video, voice acting, these huge worlds to explore, all at the cost of lengthier load times. While the Nintendo 64 liked all of that for the sake of quicker loading. Guess who won? Thank God, I saved 30 seconds on the load times, and now my life can suck quicker. Turns out, no one cared if they had the weight for a game to load, and the battle between the PS1 and N64 proved that. I mean, here are games that had loading screens on PlayStation, compared to the games that didn't have loading screens on Nintendo 64. Of course, now that there was no escaping load times, some developers decided to get creative with them. Obviously, Ridge Racer is an example of that, featuring a bite-sized version of Galaxi in a play-wall waiting, which obviously opened up a world of loading screen possibilities. F***ing patents, man. Now over the years, we have gotten some interactive loading screens, like Test Drive on PS2 and Xbox. We got PONG! Not wait a second. Why were they able to do this when Namco had this concept patented? Same way, you can legally murder. Don't get caught. I assume this just wasn't on the radar, or they didn't care that much. I mean, how much did Namco really utilize their patent here? Well, look no further than Tekken 5! Jesus Christ! How do we go from like 12 pixels to more than 12 pixels? This loading screen is based on the arcade game Starblade. And it's amazing to see how far Namco loading screens have come. It's crazy. They went from singular to plural. Yeah, the Tekken and Ridge Racer games are some of the only major examples from them, which, man, for a developer with such a rich arcade history, you'd think it'd be the easiest thing in the world to throw any of these bastards on a loading screen. Hell, on PS1 alone, you could have had a little mini Peckman game while Peckman were loaded. Easy! But no! I mean, why bother when you own the pan? Not like there's any competition. Not like there's any competition. Thankfully, this pan expired in 2015. I don't know how much it was genuinely enforced over the years, but regardless, we can rejoice. Video game loading screens can finally be fun! Huh, fun sucks. And now, let's be fair. We've had some pretty great ones over the years. One that immediately comes to mind is Splatoon on Wii U. When you're waiting for the online match to start, you can play squid jump down on the gamepad. Honestly, one of the best uses of the dual screens of the Wii U. It almost makes the investment worth it. Almost, especially considering Splatoon 2 just lets you dig around with the music in Splatoon 3 just as you practice the actual game. Bo! That's practical. I don't want practical. Bo! Bo! Bo! Bo! Bo! Leave one, jokes. But I can't deny how smart practice rooms are as loading screens. Like with the Baynet of Games, you have an opportunity to try out some combos or discover brand new ones. Or the Assassin's Creed games, which are the exact same thing, but now including the addition of nothing to do! Is running around and avoid. That's all I need, which explains why I'm malnourished. These make sense in the context of the franchise. You're transported into the lives of your ancestors. So the environment has to load up. Not only in the game, but the story as well. Hey, it gives you something to do. That's for damn sure. I mean, Raman and Origins and Legends both let you do similar things while the stage is loading. That just gives you a chance to play the game before you... Play the game. A little tasty, now get your bearings on the controls. The feel of the character. I mean, it isn't the most exciting thing in the world, but these three examples showcase how loading screens can actually enhance the gameplay that follows. For examples. You ever just sitting there with these static-ass screens and then when the game starts, you're not ready! Oh, no, I damn it! Why do I play with butter to pass the time? These ensure you're prepared for anything. How about an ulcer? Bad loading screens. What makes one so abysmal? I'll tell you later. Why do the games with the longest load times have nothing to do during them? Like a city undercover. Booth the game up. You get this spinning police badge for nearly a minute, title screen, and then... Oh, come back old friend. What the title screen took this long to load? And you couldn't at least have a progress more or something? Really not. I'm gonna frustrated me more seeing how slow it is visualized. But that's the Wii U version. On the other consoles, we get a different loading screen and faster load times. Faster is faster. We can move this 3D model of a Lego set around, which, I mean, this isn't great, but Lord, it's better than the original. If you stare at this long enough, you will go insane. Now, does that make half-life twos better? These ones are just weird, man. How they just freeze the game randomly to load? And not like this happens before or after a cutscene, or during a time in which it makes sense for the game to fade to black and take a second to load. And no, it's just, hey, I know you're in the middle of playing, but check this out. It's got the same energy as, hey, fuck you, look at this bad. Of course, I understand why Half-Life 2 does what Half-Life 2 is. We're playing in a massive world here, especially for 2004. Sure, it's awkward, but to an extent, I respect them for just telling you how it is. I'm trying to hide anything. Here we're loading. What of it? And something loads of games refuse to do. I'm thinking to mask these screens in ways that feel natural to the players, and don't notice. Yeah, I don't notice. Getting harder to find a modern game these days that doesn't feature squeezing through a crack for 10 seconds. And because of that, it's easy to point at this and claim that this is all to mask loading screens. Now, what's my source? A common sense. I mean, why the hell else would these characters be squeezing through cracks? Because they have to? I don't know, it's obviously because they're trying to hide something. They're fucking with me. And they dare fuck their customer? I found that once people notice something's a thing, they all of a sudden need to have a stance on it. I think are these really that annoying or annoying in the slightest? Oh, another hidden load screen, masked by this incredibly natural part of the level design that I only found out hide's loading screens once every game started to do it. Do these even hide loading screens? Some developers have come out to say these are here for design purposes to funnel the player in a particular direction while naturally stopping them from going backwards, which, I mean, sure, the game is loading stuff during this segment. Could be a lot, could be a little. But to claim this is just a hidden load screen, it's not fair. Post of the time when these pop up, it's to aid the level design first and foremost. And if these really get on your nerves, well damn, I'd like to see what else pisses you off. Fingers. Never hear arguments about these. They're often called pace breakers, but I don't get that at all. What are you in the middle of action and it just hard cuts to this? These almost always occur during a pretty quiet walking segment. And if this is a pace breaker, I don't want to know what this is. It's easy to blame the games themselves for bad flow times, but hey, it's not always their fault. Let's take a look at the Neo GeocD, a console with such horrendous load times. They put out a revision with the sole purpose of just fixing that. The Neo GeocD Z. It's just the Neo GeocD, but now with faster loading. I never said fast loading. These early CD based consoles add it pretty rough. I mean, it takes minutes upon minutes to boot games up and for what? All right. Worth the wait. But what game has the worst load times? One that immediately comes to mind is Nintendo Badger Game on the Nintendo 3DS. The free download that would offer icons to decorate your home screen, pay for credits to nav them with a crane game with new badges being added via consistent updates. So there's a lot going on here. Gotta load up the app, connect to the internet, and the 3DS menu is heavily involved here, doing something it was never designed to do. So there's tons of reasons this takes a while to boot up. 10 minutes of reasons. Jesus, that makes Grand Theft Auto Vs look like a blink and you miss it moment. Well, if the blink turns into a nap. Back when it launched on the Xbox 360, GTA V would take like three minutes to boot up, which a few re-releases later. Here on the PlayStation 5, it takes... Still pretty damn long for an Xbox 360 game on PlayStation 5. Well, how about an Xbox 360 game on Xbox 360? Sonic the Hedgehog from 2006. Here, watch this. You've just experienced a third of Sonic O'Six. Load screens generally make up such a huge percentage of this game's runtime. It's hard to a character to start a mission. Loading screen. The character tells you something. Loading screen. Here's the mission. Loading screen. The character thanks you. Loading screen. And you know what the craziest thing is? This shit boots up instantly. That's like a four-second load, and then here's the title screen with some plays this huge cutscene. Yet it has the load Robert telling me to put my damn shoes on. It just makes me want to play a good game. Like Bloodboard. This is the worst loading screen. Let me look at this. What the hell is this? It's the logo on black, and that's it. And without difficulty, the game is you're going to die a lot and see this pop up every single time for a minute and a half straight. I'll hand it to Sonic O'6. There was more interesting to look at here. Silver the head jog or nothing. Damn, give me a minute. Oh, is it? I can deal with frequent load times. I can do with long load times. I can do with nothing to do or look at during load times. But when I have to deal with more than one of these at a time, that's what makes for the worst loading screens. GTA V is easy to forgive considering you have one long boot up and then practically no load times during the actual game. And then with something like Animal Crossing, New Horizons, there's as long as wait at the start and unstoppable dialogue sequence, another wait. And then when we get into the actual game, we still have these clunky-ass loads when entering buildings. What exactly are we loading here? Dude, loading screens can be the worst things ever. But are there any that are truly the best? Even some of the coolest ones out there, they're kinda just making the most out of a bad situation. Look up best loading screens of all time and tell me, do they elicit a hanker? Skyrim lets me move a 3D model around sluggishly. Well, hot damn, at that point, this is the true loading screen. Resident Evil's ominous opening door really added to the survival horror experience. The genuine fear of what's on the other side just made 10 times more effective by how slow it was. This is a loading screen that enhanced the game. It's a lot after you've seen it for the 40th time it kind of loses its luster. Oh god, what's on the other side? It's drywall. Tips and tricks, yeah, that's a pretty easy way to use up this time, but I don't think I ever learned a damn thing from these. Any tip and or trick on these things as surface level knowledge, it's just like, wow, the more you know. That's a cute ones like these Dragon Ball titles, Okami's pop prints, Devil May Cry 3's assault charges. I respect the hell out of these, they're pretty cool. But that's the farthest they ever go. If I had the choice between no loading screens and loading screens with funny pictures on them, hmm, would I rather wait or not? Like I know I sound like the last guy you'd want to hang out with by sighting with the former, but I'm sorry, I like these, but let's be honest here. Nowadays, as loading screens become less and less frequent and intrusive with the evolution of technology, anybody that says how they miss loading screens, I just have to respond with, really? It's like saying you miss instruction manuals, or game magazines, or video rental stores. Have some great memories with these things, but do you truly miss them? If they are brought back, are you genuinely going to utilize them? Or are you just going to think it's meat? Because with the release of the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series consoles, SSD storage became a standard for video games, making load times, not extinct, but so damn fast, there's really no point to doing anything special with these screens anymore. And listen, I love to give some poetic statement on how we lost something with the death of unique loading screens, but how many games were doing them to begin with? Most didn't care, like look at this! And the ones that did care to put something here? It says more about the developers, and they're passionate to make the most out of the cars they're dealt with than does about the validity of loading screens. The screens aren't what's special here. It's what the developers decided to do with them. Scott here, loading screens are the only thing that stands between me and happiness. We spend decades complaining about them, and now that they're not as common, you know people are out there saying, damn, I miss loading screens. Why? People love to bitch! For example, it is easier to press or it will make sounds…ป