Does this ever happen to you? I have money. Well, somebody ought to do something about that. Hi, my friends call me somebody, but you can call me delusional. I'm the owner and founder of Blue Boarder Store, and over the years, I've not only noticed a steep decline in Blue Boarder stores. They just flat out never existed, and as a former chronic gambling addict, I had to find something to fill the void that left, so I thought, why not gamble on selling a marketable plush? Look, I'm marketing it. Blue Boarder Store is a one-of-a-kind boutique shop that sells merchandise like shirts, a poster, a little man. There's an infinite supply of numbers in the universe, but did you know only one of those numbers is the quantity of products on Blue Boarder Store right now? This storefront right here is designed to be the home of scot-o-wars and Blue Boarder Entertainment merchandise moving forward, and buying products from it directly supports them as well. You can't beat Sin and one of these right here and think into yourself, I might be watching a little too much YouTube. You better not act fast either, because these items are not limited edition. They are just products on this storefront. So take things slow, and buy this when the time is right for that special someone in your life when you want to let them know, you don't know them very well. It's the Blue Boarder Store. Home of... This. I'm pretty stoked to announce the new home for scot-o-wars merchandise moving forward, BlueBorder.store. The only place you're safe from products you actually need. We've been working on this for nearly a year, and I am just so excited to have fresh new stuff available year round none of this is limited edition, and we have plans to do new product drops roughly each quarter or so if these don't absolutely bomb that, that's a big stipulation in the contract. We're starting off with four items today, first one being the Hey All Tea. It's a real nice fit with these amazing puffed out letters. You have some custom woven labels rated E for a relevant patch on the sleeve. I know what I'm wearing to my hearing. A souped a variant of this design is available as Scot's hoodie with graphics on the sleeve and in the back. There's the new world of scot-o-wars poster with all these characters and references spread throughout, but the big boy is a little man. This is a brand new line of talking plushes we're producing called DeskMate, and the very first one is Skat. Squeeze his foot and he'll spout out something, Corp, I'm sure. Yep. He has a holographic tag and comes in this giant box with art all over it, especially on the inside. Probably one of the most detailed products we've ever done. I would love to do more characters as DeskMates in the future, depending on how well this one does. Hopefully you all love this package as much as I do, and these won't fill a landfill somewhere. The site itself is filled with beautiful, original art done by one of the most talented, sweetest artists out there, Ricky, who was also the lead designer of a good bit of the merch on display. There's also plans to incorporate a past products archive. You just couldn't get it polished up enough for launch, but this will be a webpage featuring every Scott the Was thing released up to 2025 with a picture and description included alongside it. I thought it was important to honor all the work done throughout the years while also moving forward with our very own shop, so that webpage will be done in the coming weeks or so. But for now, if you'd like to stay updated on everything BlueBorder store, you can sign up for the email list on the website or you can follow BlueBorder Entertainment on Twitter, Instagram, BlueSky, and yeah, Tom, thank you all for supporting all my garbage throughout the years. You've made it entirely possible to do all this crazy stuff at the quality we're able to do it at, so this is absolutely insane. It's always been just the dream of mine and just to see it all come to fruition. It's always really surreal, so thank you so much for your support throughout the years. I really do appreciate it. So if any of this interests you, check out BlueBorder Store, stay tuned, and if you buy one of these, please don't do anything weird to him.