Hey all, Scott here. Oh, I'm sorry, it should be more specific. You don't want to get me confused with any of the other hayalling scots around here. Lots of people are named Scott. For example. Well, just in case we're both here at the same time and you need to know who to shoot, I'm decided to say goodbye to my old name and from here on out, I'm to be referred to by the one thing that's wholly unique to me. Hey guys, wanna play Portal? Nobody likes me. With a medium as old and broad as video games, we're always bound to have this issue. My favorite video game is titled Football. And my favorite fish swim. Same name, different game because life wasn't hard enough. Hey, loads of game franchises consist of nothing but consistent re-releases or just different versions of the same concept. Like, for example, how many games out there are just title Tetris, you know? But see, that I can understand. This, the opposite of that statement is you can't over-sit. Star Fox for Atari 2600. What the heck? Colors, shapes, lines, that's Star Fox. It's always been a funny little novelty out 10 years before Nintendo's Star Fox debuted. Star Fox debuted. I'd waited a bet that 60% of the Atari game library is space shooting base. So they definitely just titled this by picking two words at random with one of them being galactic as fuck. Man, just call it space noun. But then Nintendo made a game that was quite literally a Star Fox. And they had to fight to name it that. Over in Europe, they had to settle for the titles Star Wing and Lilat Wars for Star Fox 64. I thought that was due to this game giving them copyright troubles in certain territories or this game. Yeah, this is Star Fox for Commodore 64 from 1987. Oh my God, there are fewer games called Banana. This isn't like a normal word. How did three different groups of people settle on the same name without name being fucking Star Fox? I'm so excited to debut my brand new game. What do you mean that title's already taken? Turns out these games have nothing to do with why Star Fox couldn't be called Star Fox in Europe. It was because of this German company, Star Fox. The name was just a little too similar for Nintendo to move ahead with that title. Then it stopped Star Fox for Commodore 64. How that did the opposite and was titled Something Else in North America? That brings up a good point. How different regions can make for the worst next 40 seconds of my life. The Final Fantasy series was notorious for skipping and renaming entries when bringing them over from Japan, leading us to having two completely different Final Fantasy II's entries. The Final Fantasy II we got in North America was actually Final Fantasy 4 in Japan with three being six. Well, I can already be confusing, but what if we wanna take things a step further? What about the DS remake of Final Fantasy III? The Wonder Swan version of Final Fantasy II? Yeah, I mean sure. Many of these games at their core are the same. Even if they sure don't look like it. But we'd be here all day if we counted all the re-releases and remakes out there. So let's try and stick to completely different games like, thank God. I mean, let's try and pray. These two games have nothing to do with each other. Even if this is supposed to be a reboot of that. And that was meant to get a sequel for years, eventually getting canceled with this, getting an ounce later on. But this was never meant to be that. Pray from 2017 was not developed with the intention of being connected in the slightest to pray from 2006. Publish it, but that's the just notice this game as aliens. That game as aliens. What else are we gonna do? You know, that game has the color brown? Well, this game has the color brown. But that's the force the developers to title this game, Pray. Maybe because after canceling Pray 2 in 2014, they wanted to nab some rounding points from fans for announcing something. You're got anything pray related just two years later at E3 2016 and just bring a cat out on stage at that point. This decision alienated fans of the original game and newcomers to the franchise, which left another reason to be pissed off. Math. And what does this have to do with Pray? But as much as Pray has to do with Pray, Pray an alien encounter for the Amiga CD32 from 1993. Sure, we have a subtitle here, but is that really gonna stop you from just calling it Pray? Three products, two of which from the same franchise, all called Pray, all involving aliens, all in first person, with nothing to do with each other. And you know what? Okay, what are you doing the rest of the day? This brings us two products which, just like Pray, use the alphabet in their titles. Disney's Aladdin on Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo is one of the most infamous examples of same name, different game. Now you can say the same about loads of games from this era. Nowadays, multiple platform games are barely different across the consoles they're on. Sure, some versions may look better or worse than the others, but at their core, these are all the same game. However, that wasn't always the case throughout gaming history. And Aladdin is the poster child for this, all right? One version on Genesis developed by Virgin Games, another on SNES developed by Capcom. Or if that's a cute little factoid, I wonder what others think of it. Welcome to Mistake Making 101. Step one, do this. This is like one of a retro gaming enthusiast favorite debates to have. Oh, which version of Aladdin is better? That may sound like a compliment, but look at these debates, man. They're both good games. You can't really go wrong with either, but time and time again, the Genesis releases considered the best. Even Shinji Mikami, the designer of the SNES version, prefers this one. On my opinion, I find the Super Nintendo game to be rock solid. It has a pretty unique, acrobatic flow to the love design, focusing less on combat and more and traversing the stage smoothly, which I feel represents the movie fairly well. In comparison, the Genesis game features actual weaponry. Oh, boy. Oh, what do you pick here? Isn't the choice obvious? I honestly find the Genesis version to be way more annoying. There's no tactility to hitting enemies. It doesn't feel like you're doing anything to them at the time. Just some funky-ass hit detection and addition to some level design quirks that are annoying or confusing or just flat out bland. Like, on Super Nintendo, these stage layouts feel finally crafted. They're such an awesome rhythm to platforming here. However, Genesis definitely takes the cake when it comes to the aesthetics. I mean, look at this animation. It is so smooth. Like it's ripped right from the movie. And hey, what do you know? Actual Disney animators worked on this version. And I can't lie, the sword is cool to have. And Capcom's game almost feel completely powerless. So my stance is, SNES is the better game, though Genesis is more appealing. Step two, but yeah, even though these two are incredibly comparable since they're both based on the same movie, they are entirely different releases. Much like Batman the Video Game, Batman Returns, Willow, Jurassic Park, Ghostbusters, Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2, Star Wars, Wingsworld, Terminator, Terminator 2, Home Alone, Robocop, Transformers, Michael Jackson's Moonwalker, Dracula, Superman, Rambo, Rocky, The Godfather, Roderwald, Hoothrame, Roger Rabbit, over the hedge. My favorite game is Over the Hedge. What the fuck does that mean? I mean, I could go on and on with these licensed games because you know what they do most of the time? A version for consoles, a version for handhelds, a PC release, which, who the hell knows what you were getting there? The power differences in audiences of each platform were so different that at the time, it wasn't unheard of to have a version for HD consoles, a version for the lower end consoles, a version for the Game Boy Advance, a version for the Nintendo DS, a version for the PSP, and a version for PC, and for most of them to be completely different games with the exact same titles. And some point though, I think many start to wise up and instead of naming the Nintendo DS version of game, like it's just the game in reality, I'm playing Black Ops and Lying's a Syn. Later on, oftentimes these releases would contain a subtitle, commanding you to don't give your shits to me, which, hey, I think that's a far better way to go about it. As a kid, I wasn't privy to what a Game Boy Advance could run and what it couldn't. You tell me Tomb Raider legend is on GBA, and I'm like, wow, this game on my Game Boy? Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. This was the moment I realized if there's one during this world and ain't in this room. Hand-held multiplets are the easiest examples of two different games with the same name. Very rarely would you get a one-to-one experience between the two, or at the very least something close enough to the point where you don't feel like a damn fool for buying into it. Game Boy, Game Boy Advance DS, how even 3DS all would receive games with the same title as something on the home consoles, and most of the time, aw, Smurfs 2? I love that shit on my Wii U. Can't wait to play it on the go. Yeah. On the go. I mean, with this, I guess they tried to convey the differences with a different box art, but like, who keeps the Smurfs 2 box art on tap in their mind? Oh, wait a second, this isn't my Smurfs 2? This must be something completely different. Smurfs 2? Now I thought this wouldn't be happening over on the PlayStation portable and PlayStation Vita, considering one of the key selling points of the PlayStation Hand-held, was how they were practically home consoles to go. This was a PlayStation 2 for your pocket, evident by Spider-Man 2 being a launch title for the thing. The PS2 version was incredible. I mean, swinging around in open-world New York City, but now, portably, didn't get my fix on the Game Boy Advance. That's not Spider-Man 2, and the DS, not Spider-Man 2, on the end-gauge, not Spider-Man 2. So finally, we get not Spider-Man 2! To be fair, Spider-Man 2 on PSP is far closer to the home console game than any of the other handhelds. Still isn't Spider-Man 2. If anything, it's like Spider-Man 1 on PS2. No open-world, no web swinging through the city with genuine physics, just generic-ass, Spider-Man-like action man. It's serviceable. But it's wild to me how many different versions of Spider-Man 2 existed on game consoles. And sometimes the same one! Spider-Man 2 on PSP and Spider-Man 2 on PSP. At least the cover art is different. I'm about to say my catchphrase. If you're an open-season fan, you're f**ked. Yeah, so these are UMD movie releases for the PSP, many of which were films that got tie-in video games, also on the PSP. I mean, this is a bit of a cheeky example. Like, yeah, there's two releases titled Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire on PSP. But one of them's the game and one of them's the actual movie. So it's like, okay, ha ha, Scott, what a fun fact. Can you please take a step back? But hey, this brings us to a whole new subset of this junk, all right? The same name, different game on the same console. This has been something that's fascinating me for years. Like Resident Evil 4 on the PlayStation 4 and Resident Evil 4 on the PlayStation 4. God damn, having these two on the shelf next to each other is so much fun. Of course, the original game's logo chest had to be for Resident Evil and the official title on the menu is All Lower Case and then they added a parenthesis at 2005 once this remake was a thing. And with this being a remake and this being just an HD remaster of the original, this isn't like the wildest thing out there. And any words, slamming on your breaks in the middle of a busy intersection because you just realized there's two Resident Evil 4s on PS4, or at least that's what the government thinks. Well, I'm about need for speed most one from 2005 and need for speed most one from 2012, both on the Xbox 360. I mean, that's a testament to how long that generation was. The fact that this game came out at the 360's launch and that console still wasn't dead when they thought enough time has passed. Let's reboot need for speed most wanted. But don't get it twisted. These are two completely different games. They have next to nothing to do with each other besides cars and racing. And need for speed and the Xbox 360. Outside of those, these are two different pieces. Most one in 2005 was primarily a game for the sixth generation of consoles. The original Xbox, PS2, GameCube. But since the Xbox 360 did debut that year and racing games are generally solid showcases for fancy new graphics, I mean, there were three available at the 360's launch alone. This just made sense. And seven years later, they thought, let's make sense again. I'd say this is less a reboot and more they just wanted to use this title again. The developers said they just really love the idea of being the most wanted. So just call it best year. How about this one here? Indiana Jones and the last crusade by Tito. And Indiana Jones and the last crusade by Ubisoft. Both on the NES, both completely different. Even the covers are nearly identical. Like, how does this happen? Well, the title version was released in 1991 and, by and large, was just an NES movie game. Diamond doesn't kind of stuff here. The version by Ubisoft was actually an adaptation of this PC game here titled Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, the Action Game, which helped differentiate it from another PC game. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, the graphic adventure. But then they wanted to bring the action game to consoles, including the NES. But just titled it Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Well, then how do we differentiate between these two? Well, this one's bad. And this one's worse. Now, those right there were the best examples I could come up with for same name, different game on the same console. Of course, we could keep going as long as we want, but is it really that interesting that there are two games called Disturial Humans on PS4 with one being the original and the other being a remake? I mean, that's not the same as two crosswords DS games. So let's be your things back to more traditional examples, such as Mega Man X and Mega Man X. Oh my God, the four! Yeah, this one's just sort of funny. I mean, loads of the original Mega Man games, well, their box are used regular numbers, their title screens used Roman numerals. How the Game Boy releases used Roman numerals across the board, and these are also different from the console games at the same name. But around the time Mega Man 6 released on the NES, Mega Man X released on the Super Nintendo. The brand new Mega Man sub-series, and you'll look at this, and you'll look at this, and yeah, I think it would have been fair to assume this was titled Mega Man 10. But then we got Mega Man 10 in 2010, so we have two games titled Mega Man 10, or Mega Man X, your pick. But it has far for the course with this franchise. It seems like every entry has this problem. There are four different Mega Man 3s. This is one of them. Well, f*** it, if this counts. Oh my God, five versions and none are alike. The Punch-Out series is one of the worst offenders though. Every damn game in this franchise is just titled Punch-Out, or Super Punch-Out. Or arm wrestling. Oh, I was hoping they were gonna call it Mega Man 3. Oh my God, six games. To be fair, Punch-Out's kind of in this weird territory where these games are different, but they're all practically remakes of each other. So it's hard to fault them, but at the same time, God damn, just add another exclamation mark or something. I don't know. It's so hard to explain to somebody your favorite game when there's a million others called the same thing. I'm so tired of saying, I love Africa with a K, just to get the response, which one? Well, dammit, let's go simple here. There's no confusing this. My favorite game is Pong. With such tastes like this, you may be asking, off, f***, what's your second favorite game? Pong, oh, you gotta be f***ing kidding me. What the hell is this? You really named your game Pong in 1992 and released it on an Atari computer system? The company who owns Pong? Pong is a side-scroller where you are ball. Thank God they named it this. What do you have a better title? Seven. We got crack down and crack. Inhale, down. Journey, destiny, wipe out for God's sake. Ninja guide and ninja guide and ninja guide and ninja guide and ninja guide. Like my God, how hard is it to give your game a unique title? I mean, I know numbering entries isn't very creative, but you really gotta try to get confused with these. Let's take Madden, for example. That naming scheme is boring, sure, but it makes sense. Hey, sometimes they have a bit of fun. 2013 was the franchise's 25th anniversary, so instead of Madden 14, they titled it Madden 25. That's cute and all, but I always wondered over a decade down the line, what they call the Madden game in 2024. F***. There's no escaping this hell. You can't refer to any game anymore without even a hint of confusion. Mortal Kombat 1. What the hell does that mean? We really need to reevaluate what we're doing here. And honestly, the video game industry should take a good long look at me and see just how easier this is. You know what, f***, it just called me Star Fox. ["What's Up"]